 
 
GE.22 -03278(E)  
Conference of the Parties  serving as the meeting  
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
Report of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  on its  
third  session, held in Glasgow from 31 October to  
13 November 2021  
Addendu m 
Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its third session  
Contents  
Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
Decision  Page 
  5/CMA.3  Guidance for operationaliz ing the modalities, procedures and guidelines for the   
enhanced  transparency framework referred to in Article 13 of the Paris  
Agreement  ................................ ................................ ................................ .................   2  United Nations  FCCC /PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 
 
 
  
Distr.: General  
8 March  2022 
 
Original: English  
FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
2   Decision 5/CMA.3  
Guidance for operationalizing the modalities, procedures and 
guidelines for the enhanced transparency framework 
referred to in Article 13 of the Paris Agreement  
 The Conferen ce of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
Recalling  Article 13 of the Paris Agreement and decision 18/CMA.1 and its annex,  
Also recalling decision 20/CMA.1 and its annex,  
Further  recalling the annexes to  decisions 17/CP.8, 2/CP.17, 24/CP.19, 13/CP.20, 
9/CP.21 and 6/CP.25 , and decision 1/CP.24, paragraphs 39 –46,  
Recalling Article 13, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement and decision 1/CP.21, 
paragraph 89,  
Also recalling  the guiding principles referred to in decision 18/CMA.1, annex, 
paragraph  3, 
Further  recalling Article 13, paragraphs 14 –15, of the Paris Agreement, accordi ng to 
which support shall be provided to developing country Parties for the implementation of 
Article 13 of the Paris Agreement and  for the building of transparency -related capacity of 
developing country Parties on a continuous basis,  
Recalling decision 1/ CP.24, paragraph 43(a), according to which Parties may submit 
their national communication and biennial transparency report as a single report in 
accordance with the modalities, procedures and guidelines included in the annex to decision 
18/CMA.1 for infor mation also covered by the national communication reporting guidelines 
contained in, as applicable, decisions 4/CP.5 and 17/CP.8,  
1. Adopts :  
(a) The common reporting tables referred to in chapter II of the annex to decision 
18/CMA.1 for the electronic reporting  of the information in the national inventory reports of 
anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks of greenhouse gases, as contained 
in annex I ; 
(b) The common tabular formats referred to in chapter III of the annex to decision 
18/CMA.1 for the electronic reporting of the information necessary to track progress made 
in implementing and achieving nationally determined contributions under Article 4 of the 
Paris Agreement, as contained in annex II ;  
(c) The common tabular formats referred to in chapters  V–VI of the annex to 
decision 18/CMA.1 for the electronic reporting of the information on financial, technology 
development and transfer and capacity -building support provided and mobilized, as well as 
support needed and received, under Articles 9 –11 of t he Paris Agreement, as contained in 
annex III;  
(d) The outlines for the biennial transparency report, national inventory document 
and technical expert review report pursuant to the annex to decision 18/CMA.1, as contained 
in annexes IV, V and VI, respectively ;  
(e) The training programme for technical experts participating in the technical 
expert review of biennial transparency reports, as contained in annex VII;  
2. Encourages  Parties to prepare their biennial transparency report and national 
inventory document in a ccordance with the outlines contained in annexes IV and V, 
respectively;  
3. Decides that technical expert review teams will follow the technical expert review 
report outline contained in annex VI;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 3 4. Reaffirms  decision 18/CMA.1, annex, paragraph 79, which state s that each Party shall 
report the information referred to in paragraphs 65 –78 of that annex in a narrative and 
common tabular format, as applicable , noting that the information provided in the common 
tabular format may be further complemented by other for mats in a Party ’s biennial 
transparency report , as applicable;  
5. Decides  that those developing country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their 
capacities may , when reporting on a provision for which they have a capacity constraint , 
choose one or more of the following options, as applicable, to reflect the application of the  
specific flexibility provisions included in the annex to decision 18/CMA .1 in the common 
reporting tables and common tabular  formats , as contained in annexes I a nd II , respectively : 
(a) Use the new notation key “FX” (flexibility) in the relevant common reporting 
tables or common tabular formats, providing an explanation of how th e specific flexibility 
provision has been applied in the corresponding documentation box;  
(b) Collapse relevant row(s) or column(s) where  “FX” is reported in each cell in 
the row or column  and expand them again for display purposes, providing an explanation of 
how th e specific flexibility provision has been applied in the corresponding documentatio n 
box; 
(c) Collapse tables related to the four additional gases included in decision 
18/CMA1, annex, paragraph 48, where “FX” is reported in each cell in the row or column 
and expand it again for display purposes, providing an explanation of how the specific 
flexibility provision has been applied in the corresponding documentation box;  indicate the 
first year and last year of the inventory time series, consistent with decision 18/CMA.1, 
annex, paragraphs 57 –58, and generate columns and tables consistent with th is selection, 
providing an explanation of how the specific flexibility provision has been applied in the 
corresponding documentation boxes;  and i ndicate the thresholds selected, consistent with 
decision 18/CMA.1, annex, paragraphs 25 and 32, providing an e xplanation of how the 
specific flexibility provision has been applied in the corresponding documentation box;  
6. Requests  the secretariat to incorporate the formats and  approaches  referred to in 
paragraph 5 above into the reporting tools referred to in paragraph 8 below ; 
7. Also requests  the secretariat to incorporate the confidentiality approach referred to in 
paragraph 26 below into the reporting tools referred to in paragraph 8 below ; 
8. Further r equests the se cretariat to develop reporting tools for the electronic reporting 
of the common reporting tables and common tabular formats  (hereinafter referred to as the 
reporting tools) , taking into account the operationalization of the flexibility provisions 
referred to in paragraph 5 above, and make available a test version of the reporting tools by 
June 2023 with a view to the final version of the tools being completed by June 2024, su bject 
to the timely availability of sufficient financial resources;  
9. Requests  the secretariat to inform the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and 
Technological Advice on progress in the development of the reporting tools at its fifty -
seventh session  (November  2022) and at each subsequent session until the tools have been 
finalized;  
10. Invites  Parties to submit their views  on the ir experience with the test version of the 
reporting tools , including experience with integrating the tools into  their national inventory  
arrangements , and inputs on improv ing the tools at the latest six months after the release of 
the test version via the submission portal by December 2023 ;1 
11. Requests  the secretariat to produce a technical paper on these submissions, includ ing 
an assessment of the experience of Parties  with using the test version  of the reporting tools  
and challenges faced by developing country Parties in integrating the tools  into the ir national 
inventory arrangements for consideration by the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and 
Technological Advice at its sixtieth session (June 2024) ; 
12. Also r equests  the secretariat, once the test version of the reporting tools  becomes 
available, to organ ize regular technical training workshops ( online and/or in  person) to 
 
 1 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx .   FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
4  facilitate an interactive exercise with experts from Parties that demonstrate s the functions of 
the reporting tools;  
13. Further requests  the secretariat to prepare a report on how the input s of Parties on the 
test version of the reporting tools  have been considered in the final version  of the tools  to 
present this to the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice  at the next 
session following finalization  of the reporting tools;  
14. Requests  the secretariat , once the final version of the reporting tools is released , to 
organize regular technical training workshops ( online and/or in  person) to facilitate an 
interactive exercise with  experts from Parties that demonstrate s the functions of the reporting 
tools and to facilitate peer learning and the sharing of experience among Party experts in 
using the reporting tools and integrating the m into their national inventory arrangements ; 
15. Also requests  the secretariat to develop user manuals for the reporting tools;  
16. Further requests  the secretariat to provide training and advice to developing country 
Parties on the use of the reporting tools and to provide technical support to these countri es, 
including those that use the  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change inventory software , 
to the extent possible , on integrat ing the reporting tools into their national greenhouse gas  
inventory arrangements;   
17. Decides  that, if the final version of the reporting tool for common reporting tables for 
inventory information is not available within the time frame referred to in paragraph 8  above, 
Parties can submit the national inventory report after 31 December 2024, with a delay not 
exceeding the delay in t he availability of the reporting tool ; 
18. Also decides  that, if the reporting tools for common tabular formats for the information 
reported pursuant to decision 18/CMA.1, annex, chapters  III, V and VI, are not available 
within the time frame referred to in paragraph 8  above, Parties shall submit the information 
in the biennial transparency report (excluding common tabular  formats ) in line with the 
agreed deadlines but can submit the commo n tabular formats after 31 December 2024, with 
a delay not exceeding the delay in the availability of the reporting tools ; 
19. Requests the secretariat to facilitate interoperability between the reporting tools and 
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change  inventory software;  
20. Invites  the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change to engage in the work referred 
to in paragraph 19  above;  
21. Also invites the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change to organize a technical 
training workshop in the second half of 2024 on its inventory software and the linkages of 
the software with the reporting tool for the electronic reporting of common reporting tables 
referred to in paragraph 8  above;  
22. Requests  the secretariat to establish an interactive web portal to facilitate the 
availability of information, by parameter and by year, reported by Parties in their biennial 
transparency reports in accordance with decision 18/CMA.1, annex, paragraphs 118 –145; 
23. Also requests  the secretariat to make the web portal referred to in paragraph 22  above 
available from December 2025 ; 
24. Emphasizes  that each interested Party may provide, as appropriate, information 
related to enhancing understanding, action and support, on a cooperative and facilitative 
basis, to avert, minimize and address loss and damage associated with climate change impacts 
in chapter IV of its biennial transparency report, pursuant to decision 18/CMA.1, annex, 
paragraph 115;  
25. Clarifies that the 100 -year time -horizon global warming potential values referred to 
in decision 18/CMA.1, annex, paragraph 37, shall be those listed in tab le 8.A.1 of the Fifth 
Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, excluding the value 
for fossil methane;   
26. Recall s that, in accordance with decision 18/CMA.1, annex, paragraph 47, a minimum 
level of aggregation is needed to protect  confidential business and military information and 
that in such cases a Party shall provide to the technical expert review team information on 
methods used to estimate emissions and removals for relevant subcategories in accordance FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 5 with good practice elab orated in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 2006 IPCC 
Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories , as well as the descriptions, 
assumptions, references and sources of information used ;  
27. Also recalls  decision 18/CMA.1, annex, paragraph 31 , and notes  that when 
information on emission factors, activity data and/or emissions by sources and removals by 
sinks of greenhouse gases  are not available at the most disaggregated level, the notation key 
“IE” may be used to indicate the data are include d elsewhere in the inventory instead of under 
the expected source  or sink category ; 
28. Notes that Parties may use on a voluntary basis the Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change 2019 Refinement to the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas 
Invent ories ; 
29. Requests the secretariat to undertake a mapping exercise of the categories in the 2006 
IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories  and those in the common 
reporting tables to identify differences in category names and to make the finding s of this 
mapping exercise available to national greenhouse gas inventory compilers;  
30. Also requests the secretariat, incorporating, as appropriate , technical advice from the 
Consultative Group of Experts and lead reviewers, to develop the training programme  for 
technical experts participating in the technical expert review of biennial transparency reports, 
as outlined in annex VII, taking into account experience and lessons learned from developing 
existing training programmes under the Convention;  
31. Further re quests  the secretariat to implement the training programme for technical 
experts participating in the technical expert review of biennial transparency reports, as 
outlined in annex VII, taking into account technical advice from the Consultative Group of 
Experts and the lead reviewers to the secretariat on the implementation of training for 
technical experts participating in the technical expert review of biennial transparency reports;  
32. Requests  the secretariat to report to the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and 
Technological Advice on progress in the development of the training programme at its fifty -
seventh session and at each subsequent session until the development of the training 
programme h as been completed ; 
33. Also r equests the secretariat to make the courses comprising the training programme, 
as outlined in paragraph 10  of annex VII , available beginning  1 March 2023, prioritizing the 
development of training courses aimed at providing a genera l overview of the enhanced 
transparency framework under the Paris Agreement and making the other courses, relating 
to information to be reviewed in accordance with decision 18/CMA.1, annex, paragraph 150, 
available by September 2023, and subject to the tim ely availability of sufficient financial 
resources;  
34. Further  requests the secretariat to promote geographical and gender balance among 
the technical review experts participating in the training programme referred to in paragraph 
30 above, to the extent poss ible, giving special consideration, including in terms of support 
for participating in the training programme, to experts from developing countries, particularly 
the least developed countries and small island developing States;  
35. Notes  that the information r eported pursuant to decision 18/CMA.1 , annex, chapter 
IV, is not covered by the scope of the technical expert review pursuant to decision 18/CMA , 
annex, paragraph 150, and that voluntary review of such reported information is not 
prohibited under the same decision ; 
36. Also n otes that Parties have expressed interest in the possibility of request ing that th e 
information referred to in paragraph 35  above be reviewed on a voluntary basis;  
37. Recognizes the important role that review of the information could play in improving 
the reporting of th e information  referred to in paragraph 35 above ; 
38. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice to consider at 
its fifty -sixth session (June 2022) the options for conducting reviews on a voluntary basis of 
the information reported pursuant to decision 18/CMA.1, annex, chapter IV, and respec tive 
training courses needed to facilitate these voluntary reviews, including the associated FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
6  budgetary considerations, with a view to recommending a draft decision on this matter for 
consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties serving as th e meeting of the 
Parties to the Paris Agreement at its fourth session (November 2022);  
39. Invites  Parties to submit their views on the matters identified in paragraph 38  above 
via the submission portal2 by 30 April 2022;  
40. Also invites  the committee to facilit ate implementation and promote compliance  
referred to in Article 15, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement to liaise with lead reviewers, 
as needed, when identifying  cases of significant and persistent inconsistencies referred to in 
decision 20/CMA.1, annex,  paragraph 22(b ); 
41. Further invites  developed country Parties, and other Parties on a voluntary basis, to 
provide financial resources to enable the secretariat to provide timely and comprehensive 
training to all Parties on using the common reporting tables a nd common tabular formats and 
the corresponding reporting tools;  
42. Decides to consider at  its fourth session and at each session thereafter an item on  
“Reporting and review pursuant to Article 13 of the Paris Agreement: provision of financial 
and technical s upport to developing country Parties for reporting and capacity -building ”, 
which will include consideration  of the  support provided to developing country Parties for 
reporting and related capacity -building under Article 13 of the Paris Agreement ;  
43. Recogniz es the need for enhanced support from various sources and channels, 
including the Global Environment Facility, for implementing the enhanced transparency 
framework ; 
44. Welcomes  the arrangements of the Global Environment Facility for providing 
financial suppor t to developing country Parties for preparing their first and subsequent 
biennial transparency reports, as requested in decision 18/CMA.1, paragraph  8; 
45. Takes note of decision  12/CMA.3 on matters related to guidance to the Global 
Environment Facility;  
46. Encourages developing country Parties to prepare and submit project proposals in 
order to receive financial support from the Global Environment Facility for preparing their 
biennial transparency reports;  
47. Invites  the Consultative Group of Experts to take into account paragraph 1 above in 
its efforts to support implementation of the enhanced transparency framework in accordance 
with decision 18/CMA.1, paragraph 15 ; 
48. Confirms the due date  for submission of the annual greenhouse gas  inventories by 
deve loped country Parties as contained in decision 3/CP.1;  
49. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 8, 11 –16, 19, 21 –22 and 29 –31 above;  
50. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
1. 
 
 2 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx . FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 7 Annex I  
Common reporting tables for the electronic reporting of the 
information in the natio nal inventory reports of 
anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks of 
greenhouse gases  
[English only]  
 The common reporting tables for the electronic reporting of the information in the 
national inventory reports of anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks of 
greenhouse gases  are available at  https://unfccc.int/documents/311076 . 
 
1. FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
8  Annex II * 
Common tabular formats for the electronic reporting of the 
information necessary to track progress made in 
implementing and achieving nationally determined 
contributions under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement  
[English only]  
1. Structured summary: Description of selected indicators  
Indicator(s) selected to track progressa Description  
{Indicator}   
Information for the reference point(s), level(s), 
baseline(s), base year(s) or starting point(s), as 
appropriateb  
Updates in accordance with any recalculation of 
the GHG inventory, as appropriateb  
Relation to NDCc  
 
 
Notes : (1) Pursuant to para. 79 of the MPGs, each Party shall report the information referred to in paras. 65 –78 of 
the MPGs in a narrative and common tabular format, as applicable. (2) A Party may amend the reporting format (e.g. 
Excel file) to remove specific rows in this table if the information to be provided in those rows is not applicable to the 
Party’s NDC under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement, in accordance with the MPGs. (3) The  Party could add rows for 
each additional selected indicator and related information.  
a  Each Party shall identify the indicator(s) that it has selected to track progress of its NDC (para. 65 of the MPGs).  
b  Each Party shall provide the information for e ach selected indicator for the reference point(s), level(s), 
baseline(s), base year(s) or starting point(s), and shall update the information in accordance with any recalculation of 
the GHG inventory, as appropriate (para. 67 of the MPGs).  
c  Each Party shall describe for each indicator identified how it is related to its NDC (para. 76(a) of the MPGs).  
Custom footnotes:  
Documentation box:  
  
 
 * The list of the acronyms and abbreviations  used in this annex can be found at the end of the document.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 9 2. Structured summary: Definitions needed to understand NDC  
 Definitionsa 
Definition needed to understand each indicator:   
{Indicator}   
Any sector or category defined differently than in 
the national inventory report:   
{Sector}   
{Category}   
Definition needed to understand mitigation co -
benefits of adaptation actions and/or economic 
diversification plans:   
{Mitigation co -benefit(s)}   
Any other relevant definitions:   
{…}   
 
 
Notes : (1) Pursuant to para. 79 of the MPGs, each Party shall report the information referred to in paras. 65 –78 of 
the MPGs in a narrative an d common tabular format, as applicable. (2) A Party may amend the reporting format (e.g. 
Excel file) to remove specific rows in this table if the information to be provided in those rows is not applicable to the 
Party’s NDC under Article 4 of the Paris Agr eement, in accordance with the MPGs. (3) The Party could add rows for 
each additional sector, category, mitigation co -benefits of adaptation actions and/or economic diversification plans, 
indicator and any other relevant definitions.  
a  Each Party shall provide any definitions needed to understand its NDC under Article 4, including those related to 
each indicator identified in para. 65 of the MPGs, those related to any sectors or categories defined differently than in 
the national invent ory report, or the mitigation co -benefits of adaptation actions and/or economic diversification plans 
(para. 73 of the MPGs).  
Custom footnotes:  
Documentation box:  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
10  3. Structured summary: Methodologies and accounting approaches – consistency with Article 4, paragraphs 13 and 14, of the 
Paris Agreement  and with decision 4/CMA.1  
Reporting requirement  Description or reference to the relevant section of the BTR  
For the first NDC under Article 4:a  
Accounting approach, including how it is consistent 
with Article 4, paragraphs 13 –14, of the Paris 
Agreement (para. 71 of the MPGs)   
For the second and subsequent NDC under Article 4, and 
optionally for the first NDC under Article 4:b  
Information on the accounting approach used is 
consistent with paragraphs 13 –17 and annex II of 
decision 4/CMA.1 (para. 72 of the MPGs)   
Explain how the accounting for anthropogenic 
emissions and removals is in accordance with 
methodologies and common metrics assessed by the 
IPCC and in accordance with decision 18/CMA.1 
(para. 1(a) of annex II to decision 4/CMA.1)   
Explain how consistency has been maintained between 
any GHG data and estimation methodologies used for 
accounting and the Party’s GHG inventory, pursuant to 
Article 13, paragraph 7(a), of the Paris Agreement, if 
applicable (para. 2(b) of annex II to decision 4/CMA.1)   
Explain ho w overestimation or underestimation has 
been avoided for any projected emissions and removals 
used for accounting (para. 2(c) of annex II to decision 
4/CMA.1)   
For each NDC under Article 4:b  
Accounting for anthropogenic emissions and removals 
in accordance with methodologies and common metrics 
assessed by the IPCC and adopted by the Conference 
of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to 
the Paris Agreement:   
Each methodology and/or accounting approach used 
to assess the implementation and achievement of the 
target(s), as applicable (para. 74(a) of the MPGs)   
Each methodology and/or accounting approach used 
for the construction of any baseline, to the extent 
possible (para. 74(b) of the MPGs)    
If the methodology or accounting approach used for 
the indicator(s) in table 1 differ from those used to 
assess the implementation and achievement the target, 
describe each methodology or accounting approach 
used to gen erate the information generated for each 
indicator in table 4 (para. 74(c) of the MPGs)    
Any conditions and assumptions relevant to the 
achievement of the NDC under Article 4, as 
applicable and available (para. 75(i) of the MPGs)   
Key parameters, assump tions, definitions, data 
sources and models used, as applicable and available 
(para. 75(a) of the MPGs)    
IPCC Guidelines used, as applicable and available 
(para. 75(b) of the MPGs)   
Report the metrics used, as applicable and available 
(para. 75(c) of the MPGs)   FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 11 Reporting requirement  Description or reference to the relevant section of the BTR  
For Parties whose NDC cannot be accounted for using 
methodologies covered by IPCC guidelines, provide 
information on their own methodology used, 
including for NDCs, pursuant t o Article 4, paragraph 
6, of the Paris Agreement, if applicable (para. 1(b) of 
annex II to decision 4/CMA.1)     
Provide information on methodologies used to track 
progress arising from the implementation of policies 
and measures, as appropriate (para. 1(d ) of annex II to 
decision 4/CMA.1)    
Where applicable to its NDC, any sector -, category - 
or activity -specific assumptions, methodologies and 
approaches consistent with IPCC guidance, taking 
into account any relevant decision under the 
Convention, as appli cable (para. 75(d) of the MPGs)   
For Parties that address emissions and subsequent 
removals from natural disturbances on managed 
lands, provide detailed information on the approach 
used and how it is consistent with relevant IPCC 
guidance, as appropriate, or indicate the relevant 
section of the national GHG inventory report 
containing that information (para. 1(e) of annex II to 
decision 4/CMA.1, para. 75(d)(i) of the MPGs)   
For Parties that account for emissions and removals 
from harvested wood products, provide detailed 
information on wh ich IPCC approach has been used 
to estimate emissions and removals (para. 1(f) of 
annex II to decision 4/CMA.1, para. 75(d)(ii) of the 
MPGs)    
For Parties that address the effects of age -class 
structure in forests, provide detailed information on 
the appr oach used and how this is consistent with 
relevant IPCC guidance, as appropriate (para. 1(g) of 
annex II to decision 4/CMA.1, para. 75(d)(iii) of the 
MPGs)   
How the Party has drawn on existing methods and 
guidance established under the Convention and its 
related legal instruments, as appropriate, if applicable 
(para. 1(c) of annex II to decision 4/CMA.1)   
Any methodologies used to account for mitigation co -
benefits of adaptation actions and/or economic 
diversification plans ( para. 75(e) of the MPGs)   
Describe how double counting of net GHG emission 
reductions has been avoided, including in accordance 
with guidance developed related to Article 6 if 
relevant ( para. 76(d) of the MPGs)    
Any other methodologies related to the NDC under 
Article 4 ( para. 75(h) of the MPGs)   
Ensuring methodological consistency, including on 
baselines, between the communication and 
implementation of NDCs (para. 12(b) of t he decision 
4/CMA.1 ):   
Explain how consistency has been maintained in 
scope and coverage, definitions, data sources, metrics, 
assumptions and methodological approaches 
including on baselines, between the communication  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
12  Reporting requirement  Description or reference to the relevant section of the BTR  
and implementation of NDCs (para. 2( a) of annex II 
to decision 4/CMA.1)  
Explain how consistency has been maintained 
between any GHG data and estimation methodologies 
used for accounting and the Party’s GHG inventory, 
pursuant to Article 13, paragraph 7(a), of the Paris 
Agreement, if applicable (para. 2(b) of annex II to 
decisi on 4/CMA.1)  and explain methodological 
inconsistencies with the Party’s most recent national 
inventory report, if applicable ( para. 76(c) of the 
MPGs)    
For Parties that apply technical changes to update 
reference points, reference levels or projections, the 
changes should reflect either of the following (para. 
2(d) of annex II to decision 4/CMA.1):   
Technical changes related to technical corrections to 
the Party’s inventory (para. 2(d)(i) of annex II to 
decision 4/CMA.1)    
Technical changes related to improvements in 
accuracy that maintain methodological consistency 
(para. 2(d)(ii) of annex II to decision 4/CMA.1)     
Explain how any methodological changes and 
technical updates made during the implementation of 
their NDC were transparently reported (para. 2(e) of 
annex II to decision 4/CMA.1)     
Striving to include all categories of anthropogenic 
emissions or removals in the NDC  and, once a source, 
sink or activity is included, continuing to include it 
(para. 3 of annex II to decision 4/CMA.1) :   
Explain how all categories of anthropogenic 
emissions and removals corresponding to their NDC 
were accounted for (para. 3(a) of annex II to decision 
4/CMA.1)   
Explain how Party is striving to include all categories 
of anthropogenic emissions and removals in its NDC, 
and, once a source, sink or activity is included, 
continue to include it (para. 3(b) of annex II to 
decision 4/CMA.1)   
Provide an explanation of why any categories of 
anthropogenic emissions or removals are excluded 
(para. 4 of annex II to dec ision 4/CMA.1)     
Each Party that participates in cooperative approaches 
that involve the use of ITMOs  towards an NDC under 
Article 4, or authorizes the use of mitigation outcomes for 
international mitigation purposes other than achievement 
of its NDC   
Provide information on any methodologies associated 
with any cooperative approaches that involve the use of 
ITMOs towards an NDC under Article 4 (para. 75(f) of 
the MPGs)   
Provide information on how each cooperative approach 
promotes sustainable developme nt, consistent with 
decisions adopted by the CMA on Article 6 (para. 
77(d)(iv) of the MPGs)   FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 13 Reporting requirement  Description or reference to the relevant section of the BTR  
Provide information on how each cooperative approach 
ensures environmental integrity consistent with 
decisions adopted by the CMA on Article 6 (para. 
77(d)(iv) o f the MPGs)   
Provide information on how each cooperative approach 
ensures transparency, including in governance, 
consistent with decisions adopted by the CMA on 
Article 6 (para. 77(d)(iv) of the MPGs)    
Provide information on how each cooperative appro ach 
applies robust accounting to ensure, inter alia, the 
avoidance of double counting, consistent with decisions 
adopted by the CMA on Article 6 (para. 77(d)(iv) of 
the MPGs)    
Any other information consistent with decisions 
adopted by the CMA on reporting under Article 6 
(para. 77(d)(iii) of the MPGs)    
 
 
Notes : (1) Pursuant to para. 79 of the MPGs, each Party shall report the information referred to in paras. 65 –78 of the MPGs in a 
narrative and common tabular format, as applicable. (2) A Party may amend the reporting format (e.g. Excel file) to remove sp ecific 
rows in this table if the information to be provided in those rows is not applicable to the Party’s NDC under Article 4 of t he Paris 
Agreement, in accordance with the MPGs.  
a  For the first NDC under Article 4, each Party shall clearly indicate and report its accounting approach, including how it is 
consistent with Article 4, paras. 13 –14, of the Paris Agreement (para. 71 of th e MPGs)  
b  For the second and subsequent NDC under Article 4, each Party shall provide information referred to in chapter III.B and C of  
the MPGs consistent with decision 4/CMA.1. Each Party shall clearly indicate how its reporting is consistent with decis ion 4/CMA.1 
(para. 72 of the MPGs). Each Party may choose to provide information on accounting of its first NDC consistent with decision 
4/CMA.1 (para. 71 of the MPGs).  
Custom footnotes:  
Documentation box:  
  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
14  
 
4. Structured summary : Tracking progress made in implementing and achieving the NDC under Article 4 of the Paris Agreementa 
 Unit, as 
applicable  Reference point(s), 
level(s), baseline(s), 
base year(s) or 
starting point(s),  
as appropriate   
(paras.  67 and 
77(a)(i) of the MPGs)  Implementation period of the NDC covering 
information for previous reporting years, as 
applicable, and the most recent year,  including 
the end year or end of period  
(paras.  68 and 77(a)(ii –iii) of the MPGs)  
Target 
levelb Target 
year or 
period  Progress made towards the NDC, as 
determined by comparing the most 
recent information for each selected 
indicator, including for the end year 
or end of period, with the reference 
point(s), level(s), baseline(s), base 
year(s) or starting point(s)  
(paras.  69–70 of the MPGs)  Year 1  Year 2  … … … End year  
Indicator(s) selected to track progress of the NDC or portion of 
NDC under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement ( paras.  65 and 77(a) 
of the MPGs):             
{Indicator}             
{Parties can add rows for each additional indicator and 
supporting information for each indicator, e.g. baseline values, 
baseline for the portion of NDC, target values, mitigation 
effects of policies and measures, etc.}             
Where applicable, total GHG emissions and removals consistent 
with the coverage of the NDC (para. 77(b) of the MPGs)             
Contribution from the LULUCF sector for each year of the target 
period or target year, if not included in the inventory time series 
of total net GHG emissions and removals, as applicable (para. 
77(c) of the MPGs)             
Each Party that participates in cooperative approaches that 
involve the use of ITMOs towards an NDC under Article 4 of the 
Paris Agreement, or authorizes the use of mitigation outcomes for 
international mitigation purposes other than achievement of the 
NDC, shall provide (para. 77(d) of the MPGs):             
If applicable, an indicative multi -year emissions trajectory, 
trajectories or budget for its NDC implementation period (para. 
7(a)(i), annex to decision 2/CMA.3)            
If applicable, multi -year emissions trajectory, trajectories or 
budget for its NDC implementation period that is consistent 
with the NDC (para. 7(b), annex to decision 2/CMA.3 )           
Annual anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by 
sinks covered by its NDC or, where applicable, from the 
emission or sink categories as identified by the host Party 
pursuant to paragraph 10 of annex to decision 2/CMA.3 (para. 
23(a), annex to decis ion 2/CMA.3)  (as part of para. 77 (d)(i) of 
the MPGs )            
Annual anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by 
sinks covered by its NDC or, where applicable, from the            
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 15 
 
 Unit, as 
applicable  Reference point(s), 
level(s), baseline(s), 
base year(s) or 
starting point(s),  
as appropriate   
(paras.  67 and 
77(a)(i) of the MPGs)  Implementation period of the NDC covering 
information for previous reporting years, as 
applicable, and the most recent year,  including 
the end year or end of period  
(paras.  68 and 77(a)(ii –iii) of the MPGs)  
Target 
levelb Target 
year or 
period  Progress made towards the NDC, as 
determined by comparing the most 
recent information for each selected 
indicator, including for the end year 
or end of period, with the reference 
point(s), level(s), baseline(s), base 
year(s) or starting point(s)  
(paras.  69–70 of the MPGs)  Year 1  Year 2  … … … End year  
portion of its NDC in accordance with paragraph 10 , annex to 
decision 2/CMA.3 (para. 23(b), annex to decision 2/CMA.3)  
If applicable, annual level of the relevant non -GHG indicator 
that is being used by the Party to track progress towards the 
implementation and achievement of its NDC and was selected 
pursuant to paragraph 65, annex to decision 18/CMA.1 ( para. 
23(i), annex, decision 2/CMA.3)             
Annual quantity of ITMOs first transferred (para. 23(c), annex 
to decision 2/CMA.3 ) (para. 77(d)(ii) of the MPGs)             
Annual quantity of mitigation outcomes authorized for use for 
other international mitigation purposes and entities authorized 
to use such mitigation outcomes, as appropriate ( para. 23(d), 
annex to decision 2/CMA.3 ) (para. 77(d)(ii) of the MPGs)             
Annual quantity of ITMOs used towards achievement of the 
NDC (para. 23(e), annex to decision 2/CMA.3 ) (para. 77(d)(ii) 
of the MPGs)             
Net annual quantity of ITMOs resulting from paras. 23(c) -(e), 
annex to decision 2/CMA.3 (para. 23(f), annex to  
decision 2/CMA.3 )            
If applicable, the cumulative amount of ITMOs, divided by the 
number of elapsed years in the NDC implementation period 
(para. 7(a)(ii), annex to decision 2/CMA.3)            
Total quantitative corresponding adjustments used to calculate 
the emissions balance referred to in para. 23(k)(i), annex to 
decision 2/CMA.3, in accordance with the Party’s method for 
applying corresponding adjustments consistent with section 
III.B, annex  to decision 2/CMA.3 (Application of 
corresponding adjustments) (para. 23(g), annex to decision  
2/CMA.3)             
The cumulative information in respect of the annual 
information in para. 23(f), annex to decision 2/CMA.3, as 
applicable (para. 23(h), annex to decision 2/CMA.3)             
For metrics in tonnes of CO 2 eq. or non -GHG, an annual 
emissions balance consistent with chapter III.B (Application of 
corresponding adjustment), annex, decision 2/CMA.3 (para.             
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
16  
 
 Unit, as 
applicable  Reference point(s), 
level(s), baseline(s), 
base year(s) or 
starting point(s),  
as appropriate   
(paras.  67 and 
77(a)(i) of the MPGs)  Implementation period of the NDC covering 
information for previous reporting years, as 
applicable, and the most recent year,  including 
the end year or end of period  
(paras.  68 and 77(a)(ii –iii) of the MPGs)  
Target 
levelb Target 
year or 
period  Progress made towards the NDC, as 
determined by comparing the most 
recent information for each selected 
indicator, including for the end year 
or end of period, with the reference 
point(s), level(s), baseline(s), base 
year(s) or starting point(s)  
(paras.  69–70 of the MPGs)  Year 1  Year 2  … … … End year  
23(k)(i), annex to decision 2/CMA.3 ) (as part of para. 77 (d)(ii) 
of the MPGs)  
For metrics in non -GHG, for each non -GHG metric determined 
by participating Parties, annual adjustments resulting in an 
annual adjusted indicator, consistent with para. 9 of chapter 
III.B (Corresponding adjustments), annex to decision 
2/CMA.3, and future g uidance to be adopted by the CMA 
(para. 23(k)(ii), annex to decision 2/CMA.3)              
Any other information consistent with decisions adopted by the 
CMA on reporting under Article 6 (para. 77(d)(iii) of the 
MPGs)             
Assessment of the achievement of the Party’s NDC under 
Article 4 of the Paris Agreement (para. 70 of the MPGs ):             
Restate the target of the Party’s NDC:             
Information for reference point(s), level(s), baseline(s), base 
year(s), or starting point(s):             
Final information for the indicator for the target year/period, 
including the application of the necessary corresponding 
adjustments consistent with chapter III, annex, decision  
2/CMA.3 (Corresponding adjustments) and consistent with 
future decisions from  the CMA (para. 23(l), annex to decision  
2/CMA.3):             
Comparison:             
Achievement of NDC: {yes/no, explanation}             
 
 
Notes : (1) Pursuant to para. 79 of the MPGs, each Party shall report the information referred to in paras. 65 –78 of the MPGs in a narrative and common tabular format, as applicable. (2) A 
Party may amend the reporting format (e.g. Excel file) to remove specific rows in this table if the informa tion to be provided in those rows is not applicable to the Party’s NDC under Article 4 
of the Paris Agreement, in accordance with the MPGs. (3) The Party could add rows for each additional selected indicator.  
a  This table could be used for each NDC target  in case Party’s NDC has multiple targets.  
b  Parties may provide information on conditional targets in a documentation box with references to the relevant page in their b iennial transparency report.  
Custom footnotes:  
Documentation box:  
  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 17 
 
5. Mitigation policies and measures, actions and plans, including those with mitigation co -benefits resulting from adaptation actions and economic diversification plans, related to 
implementin g and achieving a nationally determined contribution under Article 4 of the Paris Agreementa, b 
Namec Descriptiond, e, f Objectives Type of 
instrumentg Statush Sector(s) 
affecte di Gases 
affected Start year of 
implementation Implementing 
entity or entities Estimates of GHG emission 
reductions (kt CO 2 eq)j, k 
Achieved  Expected  
           
           
 
 
a  Each Party shall provide information on actions, policies and measures that support the implementation and achievement of its  NDC under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement, focusing on 
those that have the most significant impact on GHG emissions or removals and those impacting key categories in the national GHG inventory. This information shall be presented in narrative 
and tabular format (para. 80 of the MPGs).  
b  For each Party with an NDC under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement that consists of mitigation c o-benefits resulting from Parties’ adaptation actions and/or economic diversification plans 
consistent with Article 4, para. 7, information to be reported under paras. 80, 82 and 83 of the MPGs includes relevant infor mation on policies and measures contrib uting to mitigation co -
benefits resulting from adaptation actions or economic diversification plans (para. 84 of the MPGs).  
c  Parties may indicate whether a measure is included in the ‘with measures’ projections.  
d  Additional information may also be pro vided on the cost of the mitigation actions, non -GHG mitigation benefits, and how the mitigation action interacts with other mitigation actions, as 
appropriate (para. 83(a –c) of the MPGs) . 
e  Parties should identify actions, policies and measures that infl uence GHG emissions from international transport (para. 88 of the MPGs).  
f  Parties should, to the extent possible, provide information about how actions, policies and measures are modifying longer -term trends in GHG emissions and removals (para. 89 of the  
MPGs).  
g  Parties shall, to the extent possible, provide information on the types of instrument: regulatory, economic instrument or oth er (para. 82(d) of the MPGs).  
h  Parties shall, to the extent possible, use the following descriptive terms to report on  status of implementation: planned, adopted or implemented (para. 82(e) of the MPGs).  
i  Parties shall, to the extent possible, provide information on sector(s) affected: energy, transport, industrial processes and  product use, agriculture, LULUCF, waste m anagement or other 
(paras. 81 and 82(f) of the MPGs).  
j  Each Party shall provide, to the extent possible, estimates of expected and achieved GHG emission reductions for its actions,  policies and measures in the tabular format; those developing 
country Par ties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities with respect to this provision are instead encouraged to report t his information (para. 85 of the MPGs).  
k  To the extent available, each Party shall describe the methodologies and assumptions used to estimate the GHG emission reduct ions or removals due to each action, policy and measure. 
This information may be presented in an annex to the biennial transparenc y report (para. 86 of the MPGs).  
Custom footnotes:  
Documentation box:  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
18  6. Summary of greenhouse gas emissions and removals in accordance with the common reporting table 10 
emission trends – summary  
According to paragraph 91 of the MPGs, each Party that submits a stand -alone national inventory report shall provide a summary 
of its GHG emissions and removals. This information shall be provided for those reporting years corresponding to the Party’s 
most recent national inventory report, in a tabular format.  
7. Information on projections of greenhouse gas emissions and removals under a ‘with measures’ scenarioa, b 
 Most recent year in the Party’s national 
inventory report (kt CO 2 eq)c  Projections of GHG emissions and removals 
(kt CO 2 eq)c 
 20XX   20X( 0)(5)  20X(0)(5)  20X(0)(5)  
Sectord    
Energy     
Transport     
Industrial processes and product use     
Agriculture     
LULUCF     
Waste     
Other (specify)     
Gas    
CO 2 emissions including net CO 2 from LULUCF     
CO 2 emissions excluding net CO 2 from LULUCF     
CH 4 emissions including CH 4 from LULUCF     
CH 4 emissions excluding CH 4 from LULUCF     
N2O emissions including N 2O from LULUCF     
N2O emissions excluding N 2O from LULUCF     
HFCs     
PFCs     
SF6    
NF 3    
Other (specify)     
Total with LULUCF     
Total without LULUCF     
 
 
a  Each Party shall report projections pursuant to paras. 93 –101 of the MPGs; those developing country Parties that need flexibility 
in the light of their capacities are instead encouraged to report such projections (para. 92 of the MPGs).  
b  Those developing country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities with respect paras. 93 –101 of the MPGs can 
instead report using a less detailed methodology or coverage (para. 102 of the MPGs).  
c  Projections shal l begin from the most recent year in the Party’s national report and extend at least 15 years beyond the next year 
ending in zero or five; those developing country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities with respect to this 
provisio n have the flexibility to instead extend their projections at least to the end point of their NDC under Article 4 of the Pari s 
Agreement (para. 95 of the MPGs).  
d  In accordance with para. 82(f) of the MPGs.  
Custom footnotes:  
Documentation box:  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 19 8. Information on projections of greenhouse gas emissions and removals under a ‘with additional measures’ scenarioa, b 
 Most recent year in the Party’s national 
inventory report (kt CO 2 eq)c  Projections of GHG emissions and removals 
(kt CO 2 eq)c 
 20XX   20X(0)(5)  20X(0)(5)  20X( 0)(5)  
Sectord    
Energy     
Transport     
Industrial processes and product use     
Agriculture     
LULUCF     
Waste     
Other (specify)     
Gas    
CO 2 emissions including net CO 2 from LULUCF     
CO 2 emissions excluding net CO 2 from LULUCF     
CH 4 emissions including CH 4 from LULUCF     
CH 4 emissions excluding CH 4 from LULUCF     
N2O emissions including N 2O from LULUCF     
N2O emissions excluding N 2O from LULUCF     
HFCs     
PFCs     
SF6    
NF 3    
Other (specify)     
Total with LULUCF     
Total without LULUCF     
 
 
a  Each Party shall report projections pursuant to paras. 93 –101 of the MPGs; those developing country Parties that need flexibility 
in the light of their capacities are instead encouraged to report such projections (para. 92 of the MPGs).  
b  Those developin g country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities with respect paras. 93 –101 of the MPGs can 
instead report using a less detailed methodology or coverage (para. 102 of the MPGs).  
c  Projections shall begin from the most recent year i n the Party’s national report and extend at least 15 years beyond the next year 
ending in zero or five; those developing country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities with respect to this 
provision have the flexibility to instead e xtend their projections at least to the end point of their NDC under Article 4 of the Paris 
Agreement (para. 95 of the MPGs).  
d  In accordance with para. 82(f) of the MPGs.  
Custom footnotes:  
Documentation box:  
 
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
20  9. Information on projections of greenhouse gas emissions and removals under a ‘without measures’ scenarioa, b 
 Most recent year in the Party’s national 
inventory report (kt CO 2 eq)c  Projections of GHG emissions and removals 
(kt CO 2 eq)c 
 20XX   20X(0)(5)  20X(0)(5)  20X(0)(5)  
Sectord    
Energy     
Transport     
Industrial processes and product use     
Agriculture     
LULUCF     
Waste     
Other (specify)     
Gas    
CO 2 emissions including net CO 2 from LULUCF     
CO 2 emissions excluding net CO 2 from LULUCF     
CH 4 emissions including CH 4 from LULUCF     
CH 4 emissions excluding CH 4 from LULUCF     
N2O emissions including N 2O from LULUCF     
N2O emissions excluding N 2O from LULUCF     
HFCs     
PFCs     
SF6    
NF 3    
Other (specify)     
Total with LULUCF     
Total without LULUCF     
 
 
a  Each Party shall report projections pursuant to paras. 93 –101 of the MPGs; those developing country Parties that need flexibility 
in the light of their capacities are instead encouraged to report such projections (para. 92 of the MPGs).  
b  Those developin g country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities with respect paras. 93 –101 of the MPGs can 
instead report using a less detailed methodology or coverage (para. 102 of the MPGs).  
c  Projections shall begin from the most recent year i n the Party’s national report and extend at least 15 years beyond the next year 
ending in zero or five; those developing country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities with respect to this 
provision have the flexibility to instead e xtend their projections at least to the end point of their NDC under Article 4 of the Paris 
Agreement (para. 95 of the MPGs).  
d  In accordance with para. 82(f) of the MPGs.  
Custom footnotes:  
Documentation box:  
 
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 21 10. Projections of key indicatorsa, b 
Key indicator(s)c Unit, as 
applicable  Most recent year in the Party’s 
national inventory report, or the most 
recent year for which data are 
available   Projections of key indicatorsd 
20XX   20X(0)(5)  20X(0)(5)  20X(0)(5)  
{Key indicator}      
     
     
     
     
     
 
 
Note : The Party could add rows for each additional key indicator.  
a  Each Party shall report projections pursuant to paras. 93 –101 of the MPGs; those developing country Parties that 
need flexibility in the light of their capacities are instead encouraged to report such projections (para. 92 of the 
MPGs).  
b  Those developin g country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities with respect paras. 93 –101 of 
the MPGs can instead report using a less detailed methodology or coverage (para. 102 of the MPGs).  
c  Each Party shall also provide projections of key in dicators to determine progress towards its NDC under Article 4 
of the Paris Agreement (para. 97 of the MPGs).  
d  Future years extended to at least 15 years beyond the next year ending in zero or five; those developing country 
Parties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities with respect to this provision have the flexibility to instead 
extend their projections at least to the end point of their NDC under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement (para. 95 of the 
MPG s). 
Custom footnotes:  
Documentation box:  
  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
22  11. Key underlying assumptions and parameters used for projectionsa, b 
Key underlying 
assumptions and 
parametersc Unit, as 
applicable  Most recent year in the Party’s 
national inventory report, or the most 
recent year for which data are 
available   Projections of key underlying assumptions and 
parametersd 
20XX   20X(0)(5)  20X(0)(5)  20X(0)(5)  
{Key underlying 
assumption/parameter}      
     
     
     
     
     
 
 
Note : The Party could add rows fo r each additional key underlying assumptions and parameters.  
a  Each Party shall report projections pursuant to paras. 93 –101 of the MPGs; those developing country Parties that 
need flexibility in the light of their capacities are instead encouraged to rep ort such projections (para. 92 of the 
MPGs).  
b  Those developing country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities with respect to paragraphs 
93–101 of the MPGs can instead report using a less detailed methodology or coverage (para. 10 2 of the MPGs).  
c  Information provided by each Party in describing the methodology used to develop the projections should include 
key underlying assumptions and parameters used for projections (e.g. gross domestic product growth rate/level, 
population gr owth rate/level) (para. 96(a) of the MPGs).  
d  Future years extended to at least 15 years beyond the next year ending in zero or five;  those developing country 
Parties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities with respect to this provision ha ve the flexibility to instead 
extend their projections at least to the end point of their NDC under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement  (para. 95 of the 
MPGs).  
Custom footnotes:  
Documentation box:  
  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 23 
 
12. Information necessary to track progress  on the implementation and achievement of the domestic policies and measures implemented to address the social and economic 
consequences of response measuresa 
Sectors and activities associated with the 
response measuresb Social and economic  consequences of the response 
measuresc Challenges in and barriers to addressing the 
consequencesd Actions to address the consequencese 
    
 
 
a  Each Party with an NDC under Article 4 that consists of adaptation actions and/or economic diversification plans resulting in  mitigation co -benefits consistent with Article 4, para. 7, of the 
Paris Agreement shall provide the information necessary to trac k progress on the implementation and achievement of the domestic policies and measures implemented to address the social and 
economic consequences of response measures (para. 78 of the MPGs).  
b  In accordance with para. 78(a) of the MPGs.  
c  In accordance with para. 78(b) of the MPGs.  
d  In accordance with para. 78(c) of the MPGs.  
e  In accordance with para. 78(d) of the MPGs.  
Custom footnotes:  
Documentation box:  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
24  Appendix  
Reporting format for the description of a Party’s nationally 
determined contribution under Article 4 of the Paris 
Agreement, including updates  
Description of a Party’s nationally determined contribution under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement, 
including updatesa 
 Description  
Target(s) and description, including target type(s), 
as applicableb, c  
Target year(s) or period(s), and whether they are 
single -year or multi -year target(s), as applicable   
Reference point(s), level(s), baseline(s), base 
year(s) or starting point(s), and their respective 
value(s), as applicable   
Time frame(s) and/or periods for implementation, 
as applicable   
Scope and coverage, including, as relevant, sectors, 
categories, activities, sources and sinks, pools and 
gases, as applicable   
Intention to use cooperative approaches that 
involve the use of ITMOs under Article 6 towards 
NDCs under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement, as 
applicable   
Any updates or clarifications of previously reported 
information, as applicabled  
 
 
Note : This table is to be used by Parties on a voluntary basis.  
a  Each Party shall provide a description of its NDC under Article 4, against which progress will be tracked. The 
information provided shall include required information, as applicable, including any updates to information 
previously provided (para. 64 of the MPGs).  
b  For example: economy -wide absolute emission r eduction, emission intensity reduction, emission reduction below 
a projected baseline, mitigation co -benefits of adaptation actions or economic diversification plans, policies and 
measures, and other (para. 64(a) of the MPGs).  
c  Parties with both uncondit ional and conditional targets in their NDC may add a row to the table to describe 
condi tional targets.  
d  For example: recalculation of previously reported inventory data, or greater detail on methodologies or use of 
cooperative approaches (para. 64(g) of the MPGs).  
Custom footnotes:  
Documentation box:  
  
 
 25 
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  Annex III  
[English only]  
Common  tabular formats for the electronic reporting of the information on financial, technology 
development and transfer and capacity -building support provided and mobilize d, as well as support 
needed and received, under Articles 9 –11 of the Paris Agreement  
Table III.1  
Information on financial support provided under Article 9 of the Paris Agreement in year 20XX -3:a, b, c bilateral, regional and other channels  
Exchange rate used: _______  
Recipient 
country or 
regionc, d  Title of the 
project 
programme
, activity or 
otherc, e  Amount (climate -specific)c, f  Statusc Channelc Funding 
sourcec Financial 
instrumentc, g Type of 
supportc Sectorc Subsectorc, h Contribution to 
capacity -building 
objectivesc, h Contribution to 
technology 
development and 
transfer 
objectivesc, h Additional 
informationc, h, i 
Face value   Grant equivalent  
       
    Domestic 
currency  USD   Domestic 
currency  USD  
Country  
Regionj 
Global          Disbursed  
Committed  Bilateral  
Regional  
Multi -bilateral  
Other 
(specify)e ODA  
OOF  
Other 
(specify)e Grant  
Concessional 
loan 
Non-
concessional loan  
Equity  
Guarantee  
Insurance  
Other (specify)e Adaptation  
Mitigation  
Cross -
cuttingk Energy  
Transport  
Industry  
Agriculture  
Forestry  
Water and 
sanitation  
Cross -cutting  
Other (specify)e  Insert 1 for Yes,  
0 for No  Insert 1 for Yes,  
0 for No   
        
 a 
 
Abbreviations : ODA = official development assistance, OOF = other official flows.  
Notation keys : NA = not applicable; UA = information not available at the time of reporting; NR = not reported (to indicate the voluntary character of the information).  
Note: Where financial support contributes to capacity -building and/or technology development and transfer objectives, information in shaded cells is automatically populated in the  relevant 
CTF table on information on support for technology development and transfer provided under Article 10 of the Paris Agreement ( table III.4) and/or information on capacity -building support 
provided under Article 11 of the Paris Agreement ( table III.5).  
a  Relevant information, in tabular format, on bilateral and regional financial support provided for the previous two reporting years without overlapping with the previous reporting periods.  
b  Parties report in a separate table for each year, namely 20XX -3 and 20XX -2, where 20XX is the reporting year.  
c  Parties  provide the underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies, as applicable, used to identify and/or report this reporti ng parameter in the respective section of the BTR.  
  
 
26  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2   
 
d  To the extent possible.  
e  If “other”, Parties should specify this informa tion.  
f  The face value and, on a voluntary basis, the grant -equivalent value.  
g  Parties  report, to the extent possible, the different amounts per financial instrument, if applicable and as available.  
h  As available.   
i  Report, to the extent possible, information on the project/programme and implementing agency and provide a link to any relevant documentation and as appropriate, support to activities 
related to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change.  
j  The region should be reported if data at the country level are not ava ilable.  
k  This refers to funding for activities that have both mitigation and adaptation components. Parties report, to the extent poss ible, the different amounts of components, if applicable and as 
available.  
… 
Custom footnotes  
The underlying assumptions , definitions and methodologies of the information in this CTF is available at link/page number of the BTR .   
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 27 
 
Table III.2  
Information on financial support provided under Article 9 of the Paris Agreement in year 2 0XX-3:a, b, c multilateral channels  
Exchange rate used: ________  
 
Abbreviations : ODA = official development assistance, OOF = other official flows.  
Notation keys : NA = not applicable; UA = information not available at the time of reporting ; NR = not reported (to indicate the voluntary character of the information) . 
Note : Where financial support contributes to capacity -building and/or technology development and transfer objec tives, information in shaded cells is automatically populated in relevant CTF on information on support 
for technology development and transfer provided under Article 10 of the Paris Agreement ( table III.4) and/or information on capacity -building support provided under Article 11 of the Paris Agreement ( table III.5). 
a  Relevant information, in a tabular format, for the previous two reporting years without overlapping with the previous reporti ng periods, on financial support provi ded through multilateral channels.  
b  Parties fill in a separate table for each year, namely 20XX -3 and 20XX -2, where 20XX is the reporting year . 
c  Parties  provide the underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies, as applicable, used to identify and/or report this reporti ng parameter in the respective section of the BTR.  
d  The face value and, on a voluntary basis, the grant -equivalent value.  
e  As applicable.  
f  This refers to support to multilateral institutions that Parties cannot specify as being climate -specific.  
g  As available.  
h  If “other ”, Parties should  specify  this information .  
i  Parties r eport, to the extent possible, the different amounts per financial instrument , if applicable  and as available . 
j  Region should be reported when data at country level are not available.  
k  This refers to funding for activities that have both  mitigation and  adaptation  components. Parties r eport, to the extent possible, the different amounts of components, if applicable  and as available . 
 
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
28  
 l  Report, to the extent possible , information on the project/programme  and implementing agency and  provide a link to any relevant  documentation  and as appropriate, support to activities related to averting, minimizing 
and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change.  
… 
Custom footnotes  
The underlying assumptions, definitions an d methodologies of the information in this CTF is available at link/page number of the BTR . 
  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 29 
 
Table III.3  
Information on financial support mobilized through public interventions under Article 9 of the Paris Agreement in 20XX -3a, b, c 
Exchange rate used: ________  
Recipientc Title of the 
project, 
programme, 
activity or 
otherc, d Channel  Amount mobilizedc, e  Amount of resources 
used to mobilize the 
supportc 
Type of public 
interventionc, f Type of 
support  Sectorc Subsectorc Additional 
informationc, i Face value   Grant equivalent   
Domestic 
currency  USD   Domestic 
currency  USD   Domestic 
currency  USD  
Country  
Regiong 
Global   Bilateral  
Regional  
Multilateral          Grant  
Concessional loan  
Non-concessional loan  
Equity  
Guarantee  
Insurance  
Policy intervention  
Capacity -building  
Technology 
development and 
transfer  
Technical assistance  
Other (specify)d Adaptation  
Mitigation  
Cross -
cuttingh Energy  
Transport  
Industry  
Agriculture  
Forestry  
Water and 
sanitation  
Cross -
cutting  
Other 
(specify)d   
Notation keys : NA = not applicable; UA = information not available at the time of reporting ; NR = not reported (to indicate the voluntary character of the information) . 
Note : Where financial support contributes to capacity -building and/or technology development and transfer objectives, information in shaded cells is automatically populated in rel evant CTF 
on information on support for technology development and transfer provided under Article 10 of the Paris Agreement ( table III.4) and/or information on capacity -building support provided 
under Article 11 of the Paris Agreement ( table III.5).  
a   Relevant information, in textual and/or tabular format, for the previous two reporting years without overlapping with the pre vious reporting periods, on financial support mobilized through 
public interventions through bilateral, regional and mu ltilateral channels, including the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism and entities of the Technology Mechanism, as  applicable 
and to the extent possible.  
b   Parties fill in a separate table for each year, namely 20XX -3 and 20XX -2, where 20XX i s the reporting year.  
c   Parties provide the underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies, as applicable, used to identify and/or report this  reporting parameter in the respective section of the BTR.  
d   If “other”, Parties should specify this i nformation.  
e  The face value and, on a voluntary basis, the grant -equivalent value, if applicable.  
f    Parties report, to the extent possible, the different amounts per financial instrument, if applicable and as available . 
g    Region should be reported when data at country level are not available.  
h   This refers to funding for activities that have both mitigation and adaptation components. Parties report, to the extent poss ible, the different amounts of components, if applicabl e and as 
available.  
i    Report, to the extent possible, information on the project/programme and implementing agency and provide a link to any releva nt documentation and as appropriate, support to activities 
related to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change.  
… 
Custom footnotes  
The underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies of the information in this CTF is available at link/page number of the BTR.    
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
30  
 
Table III.4  
Information on support for technology development and transfer provided under Article 10 of the Paris Agreementa 
Titleb Recipient entityb Description and 
objectivesb Type of supportb Sectorb Subsectorb Type of 
technologyb Status of 
measure or 
activityb Activity 
undertaken byb Additional 
informatione 
   Mitigation  
Adaptation  
Cross -cuttingd 
 Energy  
Transport  
Industry  
Agriculture  
Forestry  
Water and 
sanitation  
Cross -cutting  
Other (specify)c   Planned  
Ongoing  
Completed  Public sector  
Private sector  
Public and 
private sector   
Notation keys : NA = not applicable; UA = information not available at the time of reporting ; NR = not reported (to indicate the voluntary character of the information) .
a  Quantitative and/or qualitative information in common tabular format on measures or activities related to support for technolo gy development and transfer implemented or planned since 
their previous BTR , to the extent possible and as relevant.  
b  Parties provide the underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies, as applicable, used to identify and/or report this  reporting parameter in th e respective section of the BTR.  
c  If “other”, Parties should specify this information . 
d  This refers to activities that have both mitigation and adaptation components . 
e  Report, to the extent possible, information on the project/programme and implementing agency and provide a link to any relevant documentation and as appropriate, support to act ivities 
related to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change.  
… 
Custom footnotes  
The underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies of the information in this CTF is available at link/page number of the BTR . 
 
   
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 31 
 
Table III.5  
Information on capacity -building support provided under Article 11 of the Paris Agreementa   
Titleb Recipient entityb Description and objectivesb Type of supportb Status of measure or activityb Additional informationd 
   Adaptation  
Mitigation  
Cross -cuttingc Planned  
Ongoing  
Completed   
Notation keys : NA = not applicable; UA = information not available at the time of reporting ; NR = not reported (to indicate the voluntary character of the information) .   
a  Quantitative and/or qualitative information in common tabular format on measures or activities related to capacity -building support implemented  or planned since their previou s report, to 
the extent possible and as relevant.  
b  Parties provide the underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies, as applicable, used to identify and/or report this  reporting parameter in the respective section of the BTR . 
c  This refers to a ctivities that have both mitigation and adaptation components . 
d  Report, to the extent possible, information on the project/programme and implementing agency and provide a link to any releva nt documentation and as appropriate, support to activities 
relate d to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change.  
… 
Custom footnotes  
The underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies of the information in this CTF is available at link/page number of the BTR . 
   
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
32  
 
Table III.6  
Information on financial support needed by developing country Parties under Article 9 of the Paris Agreementa, b 
Exchange rate used: ________  
Secto rc Subsectorc Title of 
activity, 
programme, 
project or 
otherc, d  Programme/  
project 
descriptionc Estimated amount 
(climate -specific)c 
Expected 
time 
framec Expected 
financial 
instrumentc Type of 
supportc Contribution 
to technology 
development 
and transfer 
objectivesc Contribution 
to capacity -
building 
objectivesc Whether the 
activity is 
anchored in 
a national 
strategy 
and/or an 
NDCc Expected 
use, 
impact and 
estimated 
resultsc Additional 
informationf Domestic 
currency  USD  
Energy  
Transport  
Industry  
Agriculture  
Forestry  
Water and 
sanitation  
Cross -
cutting  
Other 
(specify)d       Grant  
Concessional 
loan 
Non-
concessional 
loan 
Equity  
Guarantee  
Insurance  
Other 
(specify)d Adaptation  
Mitigation  
Cross -
cuttinge 
 Insert 1 for 
Yes, 0 for 
No Insert 1 for 
Yes, 0 for 
No Insert 1 for 
Yes, 0 for 
No   
Notation keys : NA = not applicable; UA = information not available at the time of reporting ; NR = not reported (to indicate the voluntary character of the information) . 
a  Developing country Parties should provide, in a common tabular format, information on financial support need ed, to the extent possible, as available and as applicable.  
b  Parties include information on support needed from the reporting year of the BTR . 
c  Parties provide the underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies, as applicable, used to identify a nd/or report this reporting parameter in the respective section of the BTR.  
d  If “other”, Parties should specify this information.  
e  This refers to funding for activities that have both mitigation and adaptation components . 
f  Report, to the extent possible, information on the project/programme and implementing agency and provide a link to any relevant documentation and a s appropriate, support to activities 
related to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse eff ects of climate change.  
… 
Custom footnotes  
The underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies of the information in this CTF is available at link/page number of the BTR . 
  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 33 
 
Table III.7  
Information on financial suppor t received by developing country Parties under Article 9 of the Paris Agreementa, b 
Exchange rate used: ________  
Title of 
activity, 
programme, 
project or 
otherc, d Programme/ 
project 
descriptionc Channelc Recipient 
entityc Implementing 
entityc Amount received 
(climate -
specific)c 
Time 
framec Financial 
instrumentc Statusc Type of 
supportc Sectorc Subsectorc Contribution 
to technology 
development 
and transfer 
objectivesc Contribution 
to capacity -
building 
objectivesc Status of 
activityc Use, 
impact 
and 
resultsc Additional 
informationf Domestic 
currency  USD  
  Multilateral  
Bilateral  
Regional  
Other 
(specify)d      Grant  
Concessional 
loan 
Non-
concessional 
loan 
Equity  
Guarantee  
Insurance  
Other (specify)d Committed  
Received  Adaptation  
Mitigation  
Cross -
cuttinge Energy  
Transport  
Industry  
Agriculture  
Forestry  
Water and 
sanitation  
Cross -cutting  
Other 
(specify)d  Insert 1 for 
Yes,  
0 for No  Insert 1 for 
Yes,  
0 for No  Planned  
Ongoing  
Completed    
Notation keys : NA = not applicable; UA = information not available at the time of reporting ; NR = not reported (to indicate the voluntary character of the information) . 
a   Developing country Parties should provide, in common tabular format, information on financial support received, to the extent  possible, as available and as applicable.  
b   Parties  include information on support received, ongoing or planned since the previ ous BTR .  
c   Parties provide the underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies, as applicable, used to identify and/or report this  reporting parameter in the respective section of the BTR.  
d   If “other ”, Parties should  specify  this information .  
e   This refers to funding for activities that have both  mitigation and adaptation  components .  
f  Report, to the extent possible, information on the project/programme and implementing agency and provide a link to any releva nt documenta tion and as appropriate, support to activities related to averting, minimizing 
and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change.  
… 
Custom footnotes  
The underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies of the information in this CTF is available at link/page number of the BTR.  
 
 
   
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
34  
 
Table III.8  
Information on technology development and transfer support needed by developing country Parties under Article 10 of the Paris  Agreementa, b   
Sectorc Subsectorc Title of activity, 
programme, project or 
otherc, d Programme/project 
descriptionc Type of supportc Type of 
technologyc Expected time 
framec Expected use, impact 
and estimated 
resultsc Additional 
informationf 
Energy  
Transport  
Industry  
Agriculture  
Forestry  
Water and 
sanitation  
Cross -cutting  
Other (specify)d    Mitigation  
Adaptation  
Cross -cuttinge 
     
Notation keys : NA = not applicable; UA = information not available at the time of reporting ; NR = not reported (to indicate the voluntary character of the information) . 
a  Developing country Parties should provide, in a common tabular format, information on technology development and transfer  support needed, to the extent possible, as available a nd as 
applicable.  
b  Parties include information on support needed from the reporting year of the BTR . 
c  Parties provide the underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies, as applicable, used to identify and/or report this  reporting parameter in the respective section of the BTR.  
d  If “other”, Parties should specify this information.  
e  This refers to activities that have both mitigation and adaptation components.  
f  Report, to the extent possible, information on the project/programme and implementing agency and provide a link to any releva nt documentation and as appropriate, support to activities 
related to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change.  
… 
Custom footnotes  
The underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies of the information in this CTF is available at link/page number of the BTR . 
  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 35 
 
 
Table III.9  
Information on technology development and transfer support received by developing country Parties under Article 10 of the Paris Agreementa, b  
Title of activity, 
programme, 
project or otherc, d Programme/project 
descriptionc Type of 
technologyc Time 
framec Recipient 
entityc Implementing 
entityc Type of 
supportc Sectorc Subsectorc Status of 
activityc Use, impact and 
estimated resultsc Additional 
informationf 
 
     Mitigation  
Adaptation  
Cross -
cuttinge Energy  
Transport  
Industry  
Agriculture  
Forestry  
Water and 
sanitation  
Cross -cutting  
Other (specify)d  Planned  
Ongoing  
Completed  
  
 
 
Notation keys : NA = not applicable; UA = information not available at the time of reporting ; NR = not reported (to indicate the voluntary character  of the information) . 
a  Developing country Parties should provide, in common tabular format, information on technology development and transfer suppo rt received, to the extent possible, as available and as 
applicable.  
b  Parties include information on sup port received, ongoing or planned since the previous BTR . 
c  Parties provide the underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies, as applicable, used to identify and/or report this  reporting parameter in the respective section of the BTR.  
d  If “other”, Parties should specify this information.  
e  This refers to activities that have both mitigation and adaptation components.  
f  Report, to the extent possible, information on the project/programme and implementing agency and provide a link to any relevant documentation and as appropriate, support to activities 
related to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change.  
… 
Custom footnotes  
The underlying assumptions, definitions and methodolog ies of the information in this CTF is available at link/page number of the BTR . 
 
   
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
36  
 
Table III.10  
Information on capacity -building support needed by developing country Parties under Article 11 of the Paris Agreementa, b 
Sectorc, d Subsectorc Title of activity, 
programme, project 
or otherc, d Programme/project 
descriptionc Type of supportc Expected time frameb Expected use, impact and 
estimated resultsb Additional informationf 
Energy  
Transport  
Industry  
Agriculture  
Forestry  
Water and 
sanitation  
Cross -cutting  
Other 
(specify)d    Mitigation  
Adaptation  
Cross -cuttinge    
 
 
Notation  keys: NA = not applicable; UA = information not available at the time of reporting ; NR = not reported (to indicate the voluntary character of the information) . 
a  Developing country Parties should provide, in common tabular format, information on capacity -building support needed, to the extent possible, as available and as applicable.  
b  Parties include information on support needed from the reporting year of the BTR. 
c  Parties provide the underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies, as applicable, used to identify and/or report this  reporting parameter in the respective section of the BTR  
d  If “other”, Parties should specify this information.  
e  This ref ers to activities that have both mitigation and adaptation components.  
f  Report, to the extent possible, information on the project/programme and implementing agency and provide a link to any releva nt documentation and as appropriate, support to activitie s 
related to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change.  
… 
Custom footnotes  
The underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies of the information in this CTF is available at link/page nu mber of the BTR.  
   
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 37 
 
Table III.11  
Information on capacity -building support received by developing country Parties under Article 11 of the Paris Agreementa, b 
Title of activity, 
programme, project 
or otherc, d Programme/project 
descriptionc Time framec Recipient entityc Implementing 
entityc Type of supportc Sectorc Subsectorc Status of 
activityc Use, impact 
and 
estimated 
resultsc Additional 
informationf 
     Mitigation  
Adaptation  
Cross -cuttinge Energy  
Transport  
Industry  
Agriculture  
Forestry  
Water and 
sanitation  
Cross -
cutting  
Other 
(specify)d  Planned  
Ongoing  
Completed    
 
 
Notation keys : NA = not applicable; UA = information not available at the time of reporting ; NR = not reported (to indicate the voluntary character of the information) . 
a  Developing country Parties should provide, in common tabular format, information on capacity -building support received, to the extent possible, as available and as applicable.  
b  Parties include information on support received, ongoing or planned since the previous BTR . 
c  Parties provide the underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies, as applicable, used to identify and/or report this  reporting parameter in the respe ctive section of the BTR.  
d  If “other”, Parties should specify this information.  
e  This refers to activities that have both mitigation and adaptation components  
f  Report, to the extent possible, information on the project/programme and implementing agen cy and provide a link to any relevant documentation and as appropriate, support to activities 
related to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change.  
… 
Custom footnotes  
The underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies of the information in this CTF is available at link/page number of the BTR . 
 
 
   
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
38  
 
Table III.12  
Information on support needed by developing country Parties for the implementation of Article 13 of the Paris Agreement and t ransparency -related activities, 
including for transparency -related capacity -buildinga, b 
Exchange rate used: ________  
Title of activity, 
programme, project or 
otherc, d Objectives and 
descriptionc Expected 
time framec Recipient entityc Channelc Amountc 
Status of activityc Expected use, impact 
and estimated resultsc Additional 
information  Domestic 
currency  USD  
    Multilateral  
Bilateral  
Regional  
Other (specify)d   Planned  
Ongoing  
Completed    
 
 
Notation keys : NA = not applicable; UA = information not available at the time of reporting ; NR = not reported (to indicate the voluntary  character of the information) . 
a  Developing country Parties should provide, in common tabular format, summary information on support needed for implementing A rticle 13 and transparency -related activities, including 
for transparency -related capacity -build ing, to the extent possible and as applicable.  
b  Parties include information on support needed from the reporting year of the BTR . 
c  Parties provide the underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies, as applicable, used to identify and/or report this reporting parameter in the respective section of the BTR.  
d  If “other”, Parties should specify this information.  
… 
Custom footnotes  
The underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies of the information in this CTF is available at link/page number of the BTR.  
 
 
   
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 39 
 
Table III.13  
Information on support received by developing country Parties for the implementation of Article 13 of the Paris Agreement and  transparency -related activities, 
including for transparency -related capacity -buildinga, b 
Exchange rate used: ________  
Title of activity, 
programme, project or 
otherc, d Objectives and 
descriptionc Time 
framec Recipient entityc Channelc Amountc 
Status of activityc Use, impact and 
estimated 
resultsc Additional 
information  Domestic 
currency  USD  
 
   Multilateral  
Bilateral  
Regional  
Other (specify)d   Planned  
Ongoing  
Completed  
  
 
 
Notation keys : NA = not applicable; UA = information not available at the time of reporting ; NR = not reported (to indicate the voluntary character of the information . 
a  Developing country Parties should provide, in common ta bular format, summary information on support received for implementing Article 13 and transparency -related activities, including 
for transparency -related capacity -building, to the extent possible and as applicable.  
b  Parties include information on support  received, ongoing or planned since the previous BTR . 
c  Parties provide the underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies, as applicable, used to identify and/or report this  reporting parameter in the respective section of the BTR  
d  If “other”, P arties should specify this information.  
… 
Custom footnotes  
The underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies of the information in this CTF is available at link/page number of the BTR.  
 
 
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
40  Annex IV * 
Outline of the biennial transparency report, pursuant to the 
modalities, procedures and guidelines for the transparency 
framework for action and support referred to in Article 13 of 
the Paris Agreement (annex to decision 18/CMA.1)1 
[English only]  
Overview chapter  
I. National inventory report of anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals 
by sinks of greenhouse gases2 (paras. 17 –58 of the MPGs)3 
II. Information necessary to track progress made in implementing and achieving 
nationally determined contributions under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement (paras. 59 –
103 of the MPGs)4 
A. National circumstances and institutional arrangements (paras. 59 –63 of th e 
MPGs)  
B. Description of a Party’s nationally determined contribution under Article 4 of 
the Paris Agreement, including updates (para. 64 of the MPGs)  
C. Information necessary to track progress made in implementing and achieving 
nationally determined cont ributions under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement (paras. 
65–79 of the MPGs)5  
D. Mitigation policies and measures, actions and plans, including those with 
mitigation co -benefits resulting from adaptation actions and economic diversification 
plans, related  to implementing and achieving a nationally determined contribution 
under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement (paras. 80 –90 of the MPGs)  
E. Summary of greenhouse gas emissions and removals (para. 91 of the MPGs)6 
F. Projections of greenhouse gas emissions an d removals, as applicable (paras. 
92–102 of the MPGs)7 
G. Other information (para. 103 of the MPGs)  
III. Information related to climate change impacts and adaptation under Article 7 of  
the Paris Agreement8 
A. National circumstances, institutional arrangements and legal frameworks 
(para. 106 of the MPGs)  
 
 * The list of the acronyms and abbreviations  used in this annex can be found at the end of the document.  
 1 Use of the outline by Parties is as per para. 2 of decision 5/CMA.3.  
 2 Including common reporting tables and the national inventory document, pursuant to the annex to 
decision 18/CMA.1.  
 3 The applicable flexibility provisions for those developing country Parties that need them in the light 
of their capacities are set out in paras. 25, 29, 32, 34, 35, 48, 57 and 58 o f the MPGs.  
 4 The applicable flexibility provisions for those developing country Parties that need them in the light 
of their capacities are set out in paras. 85, 92, 95 and 102 of the MPGs.  
 5 Pursuant to para. 77(d) of the annex to decision 18/CMA.1, s uch information is subject to relevant 
decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement on Article 6 of the Paris Agreement.  
 6 This only applies to Parties that submit a stand -alone national i nventory report.  
 7 Those developing countries that need flexibility in the light of their capacities are encouraged to 
report these projections.  
 8 Information relevant to this chapter is outlined in paras. 13 –14 of the MPGs , as applicable.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 41 B. Impacts, risks and vulnerabilities, as appropriate (para. 107 of the MPGs)  
C. Adaptation priorities and barriers (para. 108 of the MPGs)  
D. Adaptation strategies, policies, plans, g oals and actions to integrate adaptation 
into national policies and strategies (para. 109 of the MPGs)  
E.  Progress on implementation of adaptation (paras. 110 –111 of the MPGs)  
F. Monitoring and evaluation of adaptation actions and processes (paras. 112 –
114 of the MPGs)  
G. Information related to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage 
associated with climate change impacts (para. 115 of the MPGs)  
H. Cooperation, good practices, experience and lessons learned (para. 116 of the 
MPGs)  
I. Any other information related to climate change impacts and adaptation under 
Article 7 of the Paris Agreement (para. 117 of the MPGs)9 
IV. Information on financial, technology development and transfer and capacity -
building support provided and mobilized under Artic les 9 –11 of the Paris Agreement  
A. National circumstances and institutional arrangements (paras. 119 –120 of the 
MPGs)  
B. Underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies (paras. 121 –122 of the 
MPGs)  
C. Information on financial support provided and mob ilized under Article 9 of the 
Paris Agreement (paras. 123 –125 of the MPGs)  
D. Information on support for technology development and transfer provided 
under Article 10 of the Paris Agreement (paras. 126 –127 of the MPGs)  
E. Information on capacity -building s upport provided under Article 11 of the 
Paris Agreement (paras. 128 –129 of the MPGs)  
V. Information on financial, technology development and transfer and capacity -
building support needed and received under Articles 9 –11 of the Paris Agreement  
A. National circumstances, institutional arrangements and country -driven 
strategies (para. 130 of the MPGs)  
B. Underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies (para. 131 of the 
MPGs)  
C. Information on financial support needed by developing country Parties under 
Article 9 of the Paris Agreement (paras. 132 –133 of the MPGs)  
D. Information on financial support received by developing country Parties under 
Article 9 of the Paris Agreement (para. 134 of the MPGs)  
E. Information on technology development and transfer su pport needed by 
developing country Parties under Article 10 of the Paris Agreement (paras. 135 –136 
of the MPGs)  
F. Information on technology development and transfer support received by 
developing country Parties under Article 10 of the Paris Agreement (pa ras. 137 –138 
of the MPGs)  
G. Information on capacity -building support needed by developing country 
Parties under Article 11 of the Paris Agreement (paras. 139 –140 of the MPGs)  
 
 9 This info rmation can also include clarification on the linkages between information related to climate 
change impacts and adaptation under Article 7 of the Paris Agreement reported in the biennial 
transparency report and that reported in the (optional) adaptation c ommunication, if submitted.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
42  H. Information on capacity -building support received by developing country 
Parties under Article 11 of the Paris Agreement (paras. 141 –142 of the MPGs)  
I. Information on support needed and received by developing country Parties for 
the implementation of Article 13 of the Paris Agreement and transparency -related 
activities , including for transparency -related capacity -building (paras. 143 –145 of the 
MPGs)10 
VI. Information to be reported when national communications and biennial 
transparency reports are submitted jointly every four years11 
A. Vulnerability assessment, climat e change impacts and adaptation measures12  
B. Research and systematic observation  
C. Education, training and public awareness  
VII. Information  on flexibility13  
Indication of (1) reporting provisions to which self -determined flexibility is 
applied, (2) capacity constraints in relation to the application of flexibility and (3) self -
determined estimated time frames for improvements in relation to those capacity 
constraints (para. 6 of the MPGs)14 
VIII.  Improvements in reporting over time15 
A. Areas of improvement identified by the Party and technical expert review team 
in relation to Party’s implementation of Article 13 of the Paris Agreement (para. 7(a) 
of the MPGs)  
B. How the Party is addressing or intends to address areas of improvement as 
referred to in paragraph 7(a) of the MPGs (para. 7(b) of the MPGs)  
C. Areas of improvement that are related to the flexibility provisions used16 (para. 
7(c) of the MPGs)  
D. Reporting -related capacity -building support needs identified, including those 
referr ed to in chapter VI above and any progress made, including those previously 
identified as part of the technical expert review in chapter VII of the MPGs (para. 7(d) 
of the MPGs)  
E. Parties’ domestic plans and priorities with regard to improved reporting 
pursuant to paragraph 7 of the MPGs are not subject to technical expert review, but 
the information may inform discussions on areas of improvement and identification 
of capacity -building needs between the technical expert review team and the Party 
concerned (para. 8 of the MPGs)  
 
 10  Parties may wish to report information on support needed for implementing the enhanced 
transparency framework and for capacity -building in a separate chapter of the biennial transparency 
report as per para. 2 of decision 5/CMA.3.    
 11 As per decision 1/CP.24, para. 43.  
 12 This chapter is not necessary if relevant information is reported in section IV of the biennial 
transparency report.  
 13 Applicable only to developing country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities.  
 14 Developing country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their national capacities may elect to 
report information on the specific flexibility provisions applied in the overview chapter of the biennial 
transparency rep ort and/or integrate this information into the chapters relevant to where specific 
flexibility provisions have been applied. Parties may also elect to include on a voluntary basis a 
summary table on the specific flexibility provisions applied.  
 15 All Parti es may report information on areas of improvement in relation to their reporting, pursuant to 
chaps. III –VI of the MPGs, in this chapter and/or in chapters relevant to where specific areas of 
improvement have been identified.  
 16 Those developing country Pa rties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities are encouraged to 
highlight the areas of improvement that are related to their flexibility provisions.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 43 IX. Any other information the Party considers relevant to the achievement of the 
objective of the Paris Agreement, and suitable for inclusion in its biennial transparency 
report  
Annexes as outlined in the annex to decision 18/CMA.1  
Annex I: Technical annexes for REDD+,17 as applicable  
Annex II: Common reporting tables for the electronic reporting of the national 
inventory report of anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks of 
greenhouse gases  
Annex III: Common tabular formats for the electronic reporting of:  
• Information necessary to track progress in implementing and achieving 
nationally determined contributions under A rticle 4 of the Paris Agreement  
• Information on financial, technology development and  transfer and capacity -
building support provided and  mobilized under Articles 9 –11 of the Paris 
Agreement  
• Information on financial, technology development and transfer and capacity -
building support needed and received under Articles 9 –11 of the Paris 
Agree ment  
Annex IV: Information in relation to the Party ’s participation in cooperative 
approaches,  as applicable18  
 
 17 Reducing emissions from deforestation; reducing emissions from forest degradation; conser vation of 
forest carbon stocks; sustainable management of forests; and enhancement of forest carbon stocks 
(decision 1/CP.16, para. 70).  
 18 Guided  by the outcome of decision 2/CMA.3.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
44  Annex V * 
Outline of the national inventory document, pursuant to the 
modalities, procedures and guidelines for the transparency 
framework for action and support referred to in Article 13 of 
the Paris Agreement1 
[English only]  
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  
ES.1. Bac kground information on GHG inventories and climate change (e.g. as it pertains to 
the national context)  
ES.2. Summary of trends related to national emissions and removals  
ES.3. Overview of source and sink category emission estimates and trends  
ES.4. Othe r information (e.g. indirect GHGs , precursor gases)  
ES.5. Key category analysis (flexibility provided to those developing country Parties that 
need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 25 of the MPGs)  
ES.6. Improvements introduced (related to a non -mandatory provision as per para. 7 of the 
MPGs, with flexibility provided to those developing country Parties that need it in the light 
of their capacities as per para. 7(c) of the MPGs)  
Chapter 1: National circumstances, institutional ar rangements and cross -cutting 
information  
1.1. Background information on GHG inventories and climate change (e.g. as it pertains to 
the national context, to provide information to the general public)  
1.2. A description of national circumstances and institutional arrangements  
1.2.1. National entity or national focal point  
1.2.2. Inventory preparation process  
1.2.3. Archiving of information  
1.2.4. Processes for official consideration and approval of inventory  
1.3. Brief general description of methodol ogies (including tiers used) and data sources used  
1.4. Brief description of key categories (flexibility provided to those developing country 
Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 25  of the MPGs ) 
1.5. Brief general description  of QA/QC plan and implementation (related to non -mandatory 
provisions as per para. 35 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided to those developing country 
Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per paras. 34 –35 of the MPGs)  
1.6. General un certainty assessment, including data pertaining to the overall uncertainty of 
inventory totals (flexibility provided to those developing country Parties that need it in the 
light of their capacities as per para. 29 of the MPGs)  
 
 * The list of the acronyms and abbreviations  used in this annex can be found at the end of the document.  
 1 Use of the outline by Parties is as per para. 2 of decision 5/CMA.3.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 45 1.7. General assessment of c ompleteness (related to a non -mandatory provision as per para. 
30 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided to those developing country Parties that need it in 
the light of their capacities as per para. 32 of the MPGs)  
1.7.1. Information on completeness (incl uding information on non -reported categories 
or any methodological or data gaps in the inventory) (related to a non -mandatory provision 
as per para. 30 of the MPGs)  
1.7.2. Description of insignificant categories, if applicable (related to a non -
mandatory p rovision as per para. 32 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided to those 
developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 32 of the 
MPGs)  
1.7.3. Total aggregate emissions considered insignificant, if applicable (relate d to a 
non-mandatory provision as per para. 32 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided to those 
developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 32 of the 
MPGs)  
1.8. Metrics ( related to a non-mandatory provision  as per para. 37 of the MPGs)  
1.9. Summary of any flexibility applied (i.e. by developing country Parties that need it in the 
light of their capacities  as per paras. 4 –6 of the MPGs)2 
Chapter 2: Trends in greenhouse gas emissions and removals  
2.1. Description of emission and removal trends for aggregated GHG emissions and removals  
2.2. Description of emission and removal trends by sector and by gas  
Chapter 3: Energy (CRT sector 1)3 
3.1. Overview of the sector (e.g. quantitative overview and descrip tion, including trends and 
methodological tiers by category) and background information  
3.2. Fuel combustion (CRT 1.A), including detailed information on:  
3.2.1. Comparison of the sectoral approach with the reference approach (related to a 
non-mandatory pr ovision as per para. 36 of the MPGs)  
3.2.2. International bunker fuels (related to a non -mandatory provision as per para. 53 
of the MPGs)  
3.2.3. Feedstocks and non -energy use of fuels (related to a non -mandatory provision 
as per para. 54 of the MPGs)  
3.2.4 . Category (CRT category number)  
3.2.4.1. Category description (e.g. characteristics of sources)  
3.2.4.2. Methodological issues (e.g. choice of methods/activity data/emission 
factors and activity data and emission factors used, assumptions, parameters 
and conventions underlying the emission estimates and the rationale for their 
 
 2 Developing country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their national capacities may elect 
either to report th e information on specific flexibility provisions applied in a separate chapter and/or 
to integrate this information into sectoral chapters relevant to where specific flexibility provisions 
have been applied. Parties may also elect to include on a voluntary  basis a summary table on the 
specific flexibility provisions applied.  
 3 Parties may elect to use the disaggregated outline presented below or the generic, less detailed sector 
outline presented for other sectors.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
46  selection, information on carbon dioxide capture, any specific methodological 
issues (e.g. description of national methods and models))  
3.2.4.3. Description of any flexibility appl ied (i.e. by those developing country 
Parties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities as per paras. 4 –6 of 
the MPGs)4 
3.2.4.4. Uncertainty assessment and time -series consistency (flexibility 
provided to those developing country Parties that  need it in the light of their 
capacities as per para. 29 of the MPGs)  
3.2.4.5. Category -specific QA/QC and verification, if applicable (related to 
non-mandatory provisions as per para. 35 of the MPGs, with flexibility 
provided to those developing country Parties that need it in the light of their 
capacities as per paras. 34 –35 of the MPGs)  
3.2.4.6. Category -specific recalculations, if applicable, including explanatory 
information and justifications for recalculations, changes made in response to 
the review  process and impacts on emission trends  
3.2.4.7. Category -specific planned improvements, if applicable (e.g. 
methodologies, activity data, emission factors), including tracking of those 
identified in the review process (related to a non-mandatory provision as per 
para. 7 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided to those developing country 
Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 7(c) of the MPGs)  
3.3. Fugitive emissions from solid fuels and oil and natural gas and other emissions from 
energy production (CRT 1.B)  
3.4. Category (CRT category number)  
3.4.1. Category description (e.g. characteristics of sources)  
3.4.2 . Methodological issues (e.g. choice of methods/activity data/emission factors 
and activity data an d emission factors used, assumptions, parameters and conventions 
underlying the emission estimates and the rationale for their selection, any specific 
methodological issues (e.g. description of national methods and models))  
3.4.3 . Description of any flexi bility applied (i.e. by those developing country Parties 
that need flexibility in the light of their capacities as per paras. 4 –6 of the MPGs) 5 
3.4.4 . Uncertainty assessment and time -series consistency (flexibility provided to 
those developing country Par ties that need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 29 of 
the MPGs)  
3.4.5 . Category -specific QA/QC and verification, if applicable (related to non -
mandatory provisions as per para. 35 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided to those 
developing c ountry Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per paras. 34 –35 of 
the MPGs)  
3.4.6. Category -specific recalculations, if applicable, including explanatory 
information and justifications for recalculations, changes made in response to the review 
process and impacts on emission trends  
3.4.7 . Category -specific planned improvements, if appl icable (e.g. methodologies, 
 
 4  As footnote 2 above.  
 5  As footnote 2 above.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 47 activity data, emission factors), including tracking of those identified in the review process 
(related to a non -mandatory provision as per para. 7 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided 
to those developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 7(c) 
of the MPGs)  
3.5. Carbon dioxide transport and storage (CRT 1.C)  
3.6. Category (CRT category number)  
3.6.1. Category description (e.g. characteristics of sources)  
3.6.2. Methodological issues (e.g. choice of methods/activity data/emission factors 
and activity data and emission factors used, assumptions, parameters and conventions 
underlying the emission estimates and the rationale for their selection, any specific 
method ological issues (e.g. description of national methods and models))  
3.6.3. Description of any flexibility applied (i.e. by those developing country Parties 
that need flexibility in the light of their capacities as per paras. 4 –6 of the MPGs) 6 
3.6.4. Uncer tainty assessment and time -series consistency (flexibility provided to 
those developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 29 of 
the MPGs)  
3.6.5. Category -specific QA/QC and verification, if applicable (related to no n-
mandatory provisions as per para. 35 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided to those 
developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per paras. 34 –35 of 
the MPGs)  
3.6.6. Category -specific recalculations, if applicable, includi ng explanatory 
information and justifications for recalculations, changes made in response to the review 
process and impacts on emission trends  
3.6.7. Category -specific planned improvements, if applicable (e.g. methodologies, 
activity data, emission facto rs), including tracking of those identified in the review process 
(related to a non -mandatory provision as per para. 7 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided 
to those developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 7(c ) 
of the MPGs)  
Chapter 4: Industrial processes and product use (CRT sector 2)  
4.1. Overview of the sector (e.g. quantitative overview and description, including trends 
and methodological tiers by category) and background information  
4.2. Category (CRT cate gory number)  
4.2.1. Category description (e.g. characteristics of sources)  
4.2.2. Methodological issues (e.g. choice of methods/activity data/emission factors 
and activity data and emission factors used, assumptions, parameters and conventions 
underlying the emission estimates and the rationale for their selection, information on carbon 
dioxide capture, any specific methodological issues (e.g. description of national methods and 
models))  
4.2.3. Description of any flexibility applied (i.e. by developing co untry Parties that 
need flexibility in the light of their capacities as per paras. 4 –6 of the MPGs)7 
4.2.4. Uncertainty assessment and time -series consistency (flexibility provided to 
those developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 29 of 
 
 6  As footnote 2 above.  
 7 As footnote 2 above.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
48  the MPGs)  
4.2.5. Category -specific QA/QC and verification, if applicable (related to non -
mandatory provisions as per para. 35 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided to those 
developing country Parties that need it in the  light of their capacities as per paras. 34 –35 of 
the MPGs)  
4.2.6. Category -specific recalculations, if applicable, including explanatory 
information and justifications for recalculations, changes made in response to the review 
process and impacts on emiss ion trends  
4.2.7. Category -specific planned improvements, if applicable (e.g. methodologies, 
activity data, emission factors), including tracking of those identified in the review process 
(related to a non -mandatory provision as per para. 7 of the MPGs, w ith flexibility provided 
to those developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 7(c) 
of the MPGs)  
Chapter 5: Agriculture (CRT sector 3)  
5.1. Overview of the sector (e.g. quantitative overview and description, includi ng trends and 
methodological tiers by category) and background information  
5.2. Category (CRT category number)  
5.2.1. Category description (e.g. characteristics of sources)  
5.2.2. Methodological issues (e.g. choice of methods/activity data/emission facto rs 
and activity data and emission factors used, assumptions, parameters and conventions 
underlying the emission and removal estimates and the rationale for their selection, any 
specific methodological issues (e.g. description of national methods and models ))  
5.2.3. Description of any flexibility applied (i.e. by those developing country Parties 
that need flexibility in the light of their capacities as per paras. 4 –6 of the MPGs)8 
5.2.4. Uncertainty assessment and time -series consistency (flexibility provi ded to 
those developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 29 of 
the MPGs)  
5.2.5. Category -specific QA/QC and verification, if applicable (related to a non -
mandatory provision as per para. 35 of the MPGs, with flexib ility provided to those 
developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per paras. 34 –35 of 
the MPGs)  
5.2.6. Category -specific recalculations, if applicable, including explanatory 
information and justifications for recalculation s, changes made in response to the review 
process and impacts on emission trends  
5.2.7. Category -specific planned improvements, if applicable (e.g. methodologies, 
activity data, emission factors), including tracking of those identified in the review proce ss 
(related to a non -mandatory provision as per para. 7 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided 
to those developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 7(c) 
of the MPGs)  
Chapter 6: Land use, land -use change and forestry (CRT sector 4)  
6.1. Overview of the sector (e.g. quantitative overview and description, including trends and 
methodological tiers by category, and coverage of pools) and background information  
 
 8  As footnote 2 above.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 49 6.2. Land -use definitions and the land representation  approach(es) used and their 
correspondence to the land use, land -use change and forestry categories (e.g. land use and 
land-use change matrix)  
6.3. Country -specific approaches  
6.3.1. Information on approaches used for representing land areas and on land -use 
databases used for the inventory preparation  
6.3.2. Information on approaches used for natural disturbances, if applicable  
6.3.3. Information on approaches used for reporting harvested wood products    
6.4. Category (CRT category number)  
6.4.1. Descr iption (e.g. characteristics of category)  
6.4.2. Methodological issues (e.g. choice of methods/activity data/emission factors 
and activity data and emission factors used, assumptions, parameters and conventions 
underlying the emission and removal estimate s and the rationale for their selection, any 
specific methodological issues (e.g. description of national methods and models))  
6.4.3. Uncertainty assessment and time -series consistency (flexibility provided to 
those developing country Parties that need it  in the light of their capacities as per para. 29 of 
the MPGs)  
6.4.4. Description of any flexibility applied (i.e. by developing country Parties that 
need flexibility in the light of their capacities as per paras. 4 –6 of the MPGs)9 
6.4.5. Category -specifi c QA/QC and verification, if applicable (related to a non -
mandatory provision as per para. 35 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided to those 
developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per paras. 34 –35 of 
the MPGs)  
6.4.6. C ategory -specific recalculations, if applicable, including explanatory 
information and justifications for recalculations, changes made in response to the review 
process and impacts on emission trends  
6.4.7. Category -specific planned improvements, if applica ble (e.g. methodologies, 
activity data, emission factors), including those in response to the review process (related to 
a non -mandatory provision as per para. 7 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided to those 
developing country Parties that need it in the  light of their capacities as per para. 7(c) of the 
MPGs)  
Chapter 7: Waste (CRT sector 5)  
7.1. Overview of the sector (e.g. quantitative overview and description, including trends and 
methodological tiers by category) and background information  
7.2. Category (CRT category number)  
7.2.1. Category description (e.g. characteristics of sources)  
7.2.2. Methodological issues (e.g. choice of methods/activity data/emission factors 
and activity data and emission factors used, assumptions, parameters and conventions 
underlying the emission estimates and the rationale for their selection, any specific 
methodological issues (e.g. description of national methods and models))  
7.2.3. Uncertainty assessment and time -series consistency (flexibility provided to 
 
 9 As footnote 2 above.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
50  those developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 29 of 
the MPGs)  
7.2.4. Description of any flexibility applied (i.e. by developing country Parties that 
need flexibility in the light of their capacities as per paras. 4 –6 of the MPGs)10 
7.2.5. Category -specific QA/QC and verification, if applicable (related to a no n-
mandatory provision as per para. 35 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided to those developing 
country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per paras. 34 –35 of the MPGs)  
7.2.6. Category -specific recalculations, if applicable, includin g explanatory 
information and justifications for recalculations, changes made in response to the review 
process  
7.2.7. Category -specific planned improvements, if applicable (e.g. methodologies, 
activity data, emission factors), including those in response  to the review process (related to 
a non -mandatory provision as per para. 7 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided to those 
developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 7(c) of the 
MPGs)  
Chapter 8: Other (CRT sector  6) (if applicable)  
Chapter 9: Indirect carbon dioxide and nitrous oxide emissions (related to non -
mandatory provisions as per para. 52 of the MPGs)  
9.1. Description of sources of indirect emissions in the GHG inventory  
9.2. Methodological issues (e.g. c hoice of methods/activity data/emission factors and activity 
data and emission factors used, assumptions, parameters and conventions underlying the 
emission estimates and the rationale for their selection, any specific methodological issues 
(e.g. descripti on of national methods and models))  
9.3. Uncertainty assessment and time -series consistency (flexibility provided to those 
developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 29 of the 
MPGs ) 
9.4. Category -specific QA/QC a nd verification, if applicable (related to a non -mandatory 
provision as per para. 35 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided to those developing country 
Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per paras. 34 –35 of the MPGs)  
9.5. Category -specific recalculations, if applicable, including explanatory information and 
justifications for recalculations, changes made in response to the review process and impacts 
on emission trends  
9.6. Category -specific planned improvements, if applicable (e.g. me thodologies, activity 
data, emission factors), including tracking of those identified in the review process (related 
to a non -mandatory provision as per para. 7 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided to those 
developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 7(c) of the 
MPGs)  
Chapter 10: Recalculations and improvements  
10.1. Explanations and justifications for recalculations, including in response to the review 
process  
 
 10 As footnote 2 above.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 51 10.2. Implications for emission and removal levels  
10.3. Implications for emission and removal trends, including time -series consistency  
10.4. Areas of  improvement and/or capacity -building in response to the review process 
(related to non -mandatory provisions as per para. 7(a) and (d) of the MPGs)  
10.5. Areas of improvement and/or capacity -building related to the flexibility provisions 
applied with self -determined estimated time frames for improvements (related to non -
mandatory provisions as per para. 7(c –d) of the MPGs)  
Annexes to the national inventory document  
Annex I: Key categories (flexibility provided to those developing country Parties that need it 
in the light of their capacities as per para. 25 of the MPGs)  
• Description of the approach used for identifying key categories, if different from the 
IPCC tier 1 approach  
• Information on the level of disaggregation  
• Tables 4.2 –4.3 of volume 1 of the 2006  IPCC Guidelines  for National Greenhouse 
Gas Inventories , including and excluding LULUCF   
Annex II: Uncertainty assessment (flexibility provided to those developing country Parties that 
need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 29 of the MPGs)  
• Description of methodology used for identifying uncertainties  
• Table 3.3 of volume 1 of the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas 
Inventories   
Annex III: Detailed description of the reference approach (including inputs to the reference 
approach such as the national energy balance) and the results of the comparison of national 
estimates of emissions with those obtained using the reference approach (related to a non -
mandatory provision as per para. 36 of the MPGs)  
Annex IV: QA/QC plan (related to a  non-mandatory provision as per para. 35 of the MPGs, 
with flexibility provided to those developing country Parties that need it in the light of their 
capacities as per paras. 34 –35 of the MPGs)  
Annex V: Any additional information, as applicable, including  detailed methodological 
descriptions of source or sink categories and the national emission balance  
Annex VI: Common reporting tables  
References  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
52  Annex VI * 
Outline of the technical expert review report, pursuant to the 
modalities, procedures and guidelines for the transparency 
framework for action and support referred to in Article 13 of 
the Paris Agreement  
[English only]  
Abbreviations and acronyms  
I. Introduction and summary  
A. Introduction  
B. Scope  
C. Summary  
D. Information provided by the Party in regard to decision 18/CMA.1 , annex, 
paragraphs 143 –145 
II. Technical review of the information reported (para. 187 of the MPGs)  
A. A review  of the consistency of the information submitted by the Party under 
Article 13, paragraphs 7 and 9, of the Paris Agreement with the MPGs, taking into 
account the flexibility accorded to the Party unde r Article 13, paragraph 2, of the Paris 
Agreement (para. 146(a) of the MPGs)  
1. National inventory of anthropogenic emissions by sources and 
removals by sinks of greenhouse gases (para. 150(a) of the MPGs)  
2. Information necessary to track progress made in  implementing and 
achieving nationally determined contributions under Article 4 of the Paris 
Agreement (para. 150(b) of the MPGs)  
3. Information on financial, technology development and transfer and 
capacity -building support provided under Articles 9 –11 of  the Paris Agreement 
(para. 150(c) of the MPGs )1 
B. Consideration of the Party’s implementation and achievement of its nationally 
determined contribution under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement (para. 146(b) of the 
MPGs)  
C. Consideration of the Party’s sup port provided, as relevant (para. 146(c) of the 
MPGs)  
D. Identification of areas of improvement for the Party related to implementation 
of Article 13 of the Paris Agreement (para. 146(d) of the MPGs)  
E. For those developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities, 
assistance in identifying capacity -building needs (para. 146(e) of the MPGs)  
F. Possible linkages with information relating to Article 6 of the Paris Agreement2  
III. Conclusions and recommendations3  
Annex  
Documents and information used during the review 
 
 * The list of the acronyms and abbreviations  used in this annex can be found at the end of the document.  
 1 Information submitted by other Parties that provide s upport, as referred to in Article 9, para. 2, of the 
Paris Agreement, may undergo a technical expert review at the Party’s discretion.  
 2 Guided  by the outcome of decision 2/CMA.3.  
 3 The chapter of  conclusions and recommendations could include information  on recommendations 
identified by the technical expert review teams in the previous reviews that the Party has not 
addressed.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 53 Annex VII * 
Training programme for technical experts participatin g in the technical 
expert review of biennial transparency reports  
[English only]  
A. General   
1. The aim of the courses forming part of the training programme is to train technical 
experts participating  in the technical expert review under the enhanced transparency 
framework under the Paris Agreement.  
2. The courses incorporate the corresponding provisions in the MPGs relating to 
flexibility.  
B. Availability  
3. The training programme will be available to experts included on the UNFCCC roster 
of experts.  
4. All courses will be available online all year round, with an option to download them.  
C. Examinations  
5. All courses will have an examination.   
6. Examination procedures  will be standardized, objective and transparent.  
7. Examinations will be offered either online or in person. When participants attend an 
in-person training seminar, the examination may take place during that seminar. Other 
arrangements for examinations may  also be made, provided that the examinations take place 
under the supervision of the secretariat.  
8. Experts who have already participated in training programmes and related technical 
reviews under the measurement, reporting and verification arrangements und er the 
Convention do not need to take examinations for courses under the training programme for 
technical experts participating in the technical expert review of BTRs that cover the same 
information as courses taken previously, taking into account their kn owledge and experience.  
D. Instructed courses  
9. Once a year, online training courses facilitated by instructor(s) will be available. In -
person training seminars will also be available. Additional regional training seminars targeted 
at technical experts from dev eloping country Parties, particularly the least developed 
countries and small island developing States, may be organized.  
E. Courses of the training programme  
10. The following courses relating to information specified in paragraph 150 of the MPGs 
will be develo ped: 
(a) General and cross -cutting aspects for the technical expert review under the 
enhanced transparency framework under the Paris Agreement (this course should take into 
account, inter alia, para. 149 of the MPGs ); 
 
 * The list of the acronyms and abbreviations  used in this annex can be found at the end of the document.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
54  (b) Technical review of national inventory rep orts of anthropogenic emissions by 
sources and removals by sinks of greenhouse gases, reported in accordance with chapter II 
of the annex to decision 18/CMA.1:  
(i) General guidance and cross -cutting issues;  
(ii) Courses pertaining to the greenhouse gas inventory se ctors  referred to in the 
MPGs:  
a. Energy;  
b. Industrial processes and product use;  
c. Agriculture;  
d. Land use, land -use change and forestry ;  
e. Waste;  
(c) Technical review of the information necessary to track progress made in 
implementing and achieving nationally determined contributions under Article 4 of the Paris 
Agreement reported in accordance with chapter III of the annex to decision 18/CMA.1 
(including the information necessary to track progress on the implementation and 
achievement of the domesti c policies and measures implemented to address the social and 
economic consequences of response measures for nationally determined contributions that 
consist of adaptation actions and/or economic diversification plans resulting in mitigation co -
benefits , and also including information in relation  to a Party ’s participation in cooperative 
approaches, as applicable) ; 
(d) Technical review of the information on financial, technology development and 
transfer and capacity -building support provided to developing country Parties under Articles 
9–11 of the Paris Agreement reported in accordance with chapter V of the annex to deci sion 
18/CMA.1.FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 55 Abbreviations and acronyms  
BTR  biennial transparency report  
CH 4 methane  
CMA  Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement  
CO 2 carbon dioxide  
CO 2 eq carbon dioxide equivalent  
CRT  common reporting table  
CTF common tabular format  
GHG  greenhouse gas  
HFC  hydrofluorocarbon  
IPCC  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change  
ITMO  internationally transferred mitigation outcome  
LULUCF  land use, land -use change and forestry  
MPGs  modalities, procedures and guidelines for the transparency framework for 
action and support referred to in Article 13 of the Paris Agreement  
N2O nitrous oxide  
NDC  nationally determined contribution  
NF 3 nitrogen trifluoride  
ODA  official development assi stance  
OOF  other official flows  
PFC perfluorocarbon  
QA/QC  quality assurance/quality control  
REDD+  reducing emissions from deforestation; reducing emissions from forest 
degradation; conservation of forest carbon stocks; sustainable 
management of forests; and enhancement of forest carbon stocks 
(decision 1/CP.16, para. 70)  
SF6 sulfur hexafluoride  
12th plenary meeting  
13 November 2021  
     
 