 
 
GE.23 -04813(E)  
Conference of the Parties  serving as the meeting  
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  
Report of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol on its 
seventeenth session, held in Sharm el -Sheikh  from 6 to 20 
November 2022  
Addendum  
Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at its seventeenth session  
Contents  
Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  
 Decision  Page 
  1/CMP.17  Date of completion of the expert review process under Article 8 of the  
    Kyoto Protocol for the second commitment period  ................................ ...................   2 
  2/CMP.17  Guidance relating to the clean development mechanism  ................................ ...........   4 
  3/CMP .17 Guidance on the implementation of Article 6 of the Kyoto Protocol  ........................   9 
  4/CMP .17 Report of the Adaptation Fund Board for 2022  ................................ .........................   10 
  5/CMP.17  Fourth review of the Adaptation Fund  ................................ ................................ .......  13 
  6/CMP.17  Compliance Committee  ................................ ................................ .............................   16 
  7/CMP.17  Report of the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures  ......  18 
  8/CMP.17  Adm inistrative, financial and institutional matters  ................................ ....................   23 
  9/CMP.17  Administrative, financial and institutional matters  ................................ ....................   30 
  Resolution  
  1/CMP.17  Expression of gratitude to the Government of the Ara b Republic of Egypt and  
    the people of the city of Sharm el -Sheikh  ................................ ................................ ..  32 
   United Nations  FCCC /KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
 
 
 
  
Distr.: General  
17 March 2023  
 
Original: English  
FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
2    Decision 1/CMP.17  
  Date of completion of the expert review process under 
Article  8 of the Kyoto Protocol for the second commitment 
period  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol ,  
  Recalling  Article 3, paragraph 1 bis, of the Kyoto Protocol, as amended,  
Also recalling decisions 13/CMP.1, 14/CMP.1, 22/CMP.1, 3/CMP.11, 4/CMP.11, 
10/CMP.11, 8/CMP.16 and 22/CP.26,  
Further r ecalling decision 27/CMP.1, annex, chapter XIII, and decision 1/CMP.8, 
annex I, chapter C,  
Clarifying that, with regard to decision 27/CMP.1, annex, chapter XIII, for the 
purposes of the second commitment period the reference to Article 3, paragraph 1, of  the 
Kyoto Protocol shall be read as a reference to Article 3, paragraph 1 bis, of the Kyoto Protocol 
as amended,  
Emphasizing the importance of the expert review process under Article 8 of the Kyoto 
Protocol for the final year of the second commitment period in view of its central role in the 
assessment of each Party’s compliance with its commitments under Article 3, paragraph 
1 bis, of the Kyoto Protocol as amended,  
Recognizing that there may be difficulties in finalizing the annual review reports for 
the 2022 review process by 15 April 2023 owing to the complexity of the process, as it is the 
final review for the second commitment period,  
Noting the timely submission of the annual submissions due in 2022 of Parties 
included in Annex I,1 
Also noting the need for Parties to continue to support and facilitate the review 
process, including through the participation of nominated national experts in the greenhouse 
gas inventory review process,  
Recalling that the secretariat maintains a compilat ion and accounting database to 
compile and account for emissions and assigned amounts, pursuant to Article 3, paragraphs 
7 bis, 8 and 8 bis, of the Kyoto Protocol, as amended, and of additions to, and subtractions 
from, assigned amounts, pursuant to the sa me paragraphs, for the accounting of the 
compliance assessment, in order to facilitate the assessment of the compliance of each Party 
included in Annex I with its commitments under Article 3, paragraph 1 bis, of the Kyoto 
Protocol, as amended,  
1. Decides that the expert review process under Article 8 of the Kyoto Protocol for the 
final year of the second commitment period shall be completed by 1 June 2023 subject to the 
availability of resources, and also decides that, if the expert review process is not compl eted 
by that date, it shall continue, and the date of completion shall be the date of publication of 
the final inventory review report for the final year of the second commitment period;  
2. Urges Parties, expert review teams and the secretariat to expedite t he review process 
in order to meet that deadline;  
3. Decides that the report upon expiration of the additional period for fulfilling 
commitments for the second commitment period, covering the information required in 
decision 13/CMP.1, annex, paragraph 49, us ing the standard electronic format tables as 
agreed in decision 3/CMP.11, shall be submitted as soon as practicable but not later than 45 
days after the expiration of the additional period for fulfilling commitments for the second 
commitment period (the tr ue-up period);  
 
 1 As defined in Article 1, para. 7, of the Kyoto Protocol.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
 3 4. Also decides  that the secretariat shall produce in electronic format, on 30 July 2023 
and every four weeks thereafter until the month of completion of the true -up period, the 
following information for each Party included in Annex I with a c ommitment inscribed in 
the third column of Annex B in the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol for the second 
commitment period, indicating clearly the source of the information:  
 (a) Inventory data for each year of the second commitment period;  
 (b) Total  emissions over the second commitment period;  
 (c) Total quantity of units held in Party holding accounts, cancellation accounts 
and the retirement account;  
5. Further decides that this information should include the total quantity of aggregated 
holdings in the clean development mechanism registry;  
6. Decides that information on the review processes remaining to be completed should 
be provided by the secretariat together with the information referred to in paragraph 4 above, 
including information on which revie ws are incomplete, which stage the incomplete review 
processes have reached, on what dates previous stages were completed and, to the extent 
possible, when outstanding stages are expected to be completed.  
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 202 2 
 FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
4    Decision 2/CMP.17  
  Guidance relating to the clean development mechanism  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Recalling  Articles 3 and 12 of the Kyoto Protocol,  
Also recalling  decision 3/CMP.1 and subsequent guidance provided by the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol relating 
to the clean development mechanism,  
Acknowledging  the contribution to global efforts to address climate change of the 
clean development mechanism, which as at 31 October 2022 was responsible for 7,844 
project activities being registered, 361 programmes of activities being registered and over 
2.32 billion  certified emission reductions being issued, of which over 389 million had been 
voluntarily cancelled either in national registries or in the clean development mechanism 
registry,  
Welcoming  the entry into force of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol,1 
Cognizant  of decisions 3/CMA.3 and 7/CMA.4 and their annexes,  
Recognizing  the need for a smooth transition from the clean development mechanism 
to the mechanism established by Article 6, paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreement,  
I. General  
1. Welcomes  the annual report of the Executive Board of the clean development 
mechanism to the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol;2 
2. Takes note  of the work undertaken from 10 September 2021 to 8 September 2022 by 
the Executive Board, its panels and the secretariat in overseeing the implementation of the 
clean development mechanism and maintaining stakeholder engagement in its operations;  
3. Designates  as operational entities those entities that have been accredited and 
provisionally designated as such by the Executive Board to carry out sectoral scope -specific 
validation and/or verification functions as set out in the annex;  
II. Functioning of the clean development mechanism beyond the 
end of the second commitment period of t he Kyoto Protocol  
4. Acknowledges  that the Executive Board recommended that the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol provide guidance on 
specific processes under the clean development mechanism relating to its functioning in the 
future;3 
5. Also acknowledges that, pursuant to paragraph 15 of decision 2/CMP.16, the 
Executive Board may continue to receive and process, under the temporary measures adopted 
at its 108th meeting, requests for registration, renewal of cr editing period and issuance of 
certified emission reductions for project activities and equivalent submissions for 
programmes of activities and the component project activities relating to emission reductions 
occurring after 31 December 2020 until the date  when the process for submission of requests 
to the secretariat to transition the requests and other submissions that have been accorded 
 
 1 Decision 1/CMP.8, annex I.  
 2 FCCC/KP/CMP/202 2/7. 
 3 See document FCCC/KP/CMP/20 22/7, chap. IV.E.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
 5 provisional status to the mechanism established by Article 6, paragraph 4, of the Paris 
Agreement becomes operational;  
6. Requests  the secretariat to prepare a technical paper to support the consideration by 
the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at 
its eighteenth session (November –December 2023) on the functioning and opera tion of the 
processes and institutions of the clean development mechanism in the future,  including 
appropriate time frames, with a view to avoiding a gap before the operationalization of the 
corresponding processes under the Article 6, paragraph 4, mechani sm, including the 
following:  
(a) Submissions to the secretariat of requests for issuance of certified emission 
reductions for monitoring periods ending before 1 January 2021 in accordance with the 
relevant procedure developed by the Executive Board;  
(b) Submission s to the secretariat of requests for voluntary cancellation of certified 
emission reductions in accordance with the relevant procedure developed by the Executive 
Board;  
(c) Approval of new and revised methodologies, methodological tools and 
standardized baseli nes submitted under the bottom -up and initiated under the top -down 
process in accordance with the relevant procedure developed by the Executive Board;  
(d) Operation of the accreditation processes under the clean development 
mechanism ; 
7. Also requests  the Executi ve Board to assess the technical feasibility, as priority, to 
allow submissions of requests for registration, issuance and renewal of afforestation and 
reforestation project activities and programmes of activities under the temporary measures 
referred to i n paragraph 5 above, and revise the procedure for the temporary measures, as 
necessary, without prejudice to the ongoing consideration by the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement of activities involving rem ovals 
under the Article 6, paragraph 4, mechanism ; 
III. Transfer of certified emission reductions to the mechanism 
registry of the Article 6, paragraph 4, mechanism under the 
Paris Agreement  
8. Requests  the clean development mechanism registry administrator, in accordance with 
paragraph 75(a) of the annex to decision 3/CMA.3, to identify certified emission reductions 
held in the clean development mechanism registry4 that are eligible for transfer to the  
mechanism registry for the Article 6, paragraph 4, mechanism, referred to in chapter VI 
(Mechanism registry) of the annex to decision 3/CMA.3 (eligible certified emission 
reductions);  
9. Decides  that the transfer of eligible certified emission reductions, in  accordance with 
paragraph 75(b) of the annex to decision 3/CMA.3, shall be effected through administrative 
cancellation of the eligible certified emission reductions in a dedicated administrative 
cancellation account in the clean development mechanism reg istry, and then the complete set 
of serial numbers of those cancelled eligible certified emission reduction s and the details of 
the receiving account shall be communicated to the mechanism registry  to enable their re -
creation in the mechanism registry;  
10. Invites the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement to request the Supervisory Body to cooperate with the Executive Board on 
implementing the process for transferring eligible certified emission reductions to the  
mechanism registry;  
11. Requests  the Executive Board, in coordination with the Supervisory Body and taking 
into account the timelines for implementing the mechanism registry and any relevant future 
 
 4 https://cdm.unfccc.int/Registry/index.html . FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
6  decisions of the Conference of the Parties serving as the mee ting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement, to:  
(a) Develop and implement a procedure for project participants and Parties 
holding eligible certified emission reducti ons in the clean development mechanism registry, 
as well as the Trustee of the Adaptation Fund,5 to request the transfer of such certified 
emission reductions to the mechanism registry, noting that such  project participants, Parties 
and the Trustee of the  Adaptation Fund  shall provide in their transfer requests:  
(i) The serial numbers of the eligible certified emission reduction s requested to be 
transferred;  
(ii) The details of their receiving accounts in the mechanism registry to which the 
certified emission reductions are to be transferred;  
(b) Develop and implement a procedure that includes the following steps:  
(i) Providing to the host Party written notice of the request for transfer;  
(ii) Effecting the transfer if no written objection from the host Party is re ceived 
within a time frame to be specified by the Executive Board;  
(c) Report on the implementation of the procedure for requesting the transfer of 
eligible certified emission reductions to the mechanism registry in its annual report to the 
Conference of the P arties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol;  
12. Also requests  the clean development mechanism registry administrator to:  
(a) Implement the modifications to the clean development mechanism registry 
necessary for the transfer referred to in p aragraph 9 above in a cost -efficient manner, 
leveraging the existing capabilities of the clean development mechanism registry;  
(b) Open the dedicated administrative cancellation account referred to in 
paragraph 9 above;  
(c) Establish the technical arrangements nec essary for facilitating the electronic 
communication and reconciliation of data related to the cancelled eligible certified emission 
reductions to the mechanism registry;  
(d) Coordinate with the mechanism registry administrator on:  
(i) Establishing the technical a rrangements referred to in paragraph 12(c) above;  
(ii) Reconciling data on cancelled eligible certified emission reductions 
communicated to the mechanism registry;  
(e) Include information on eligible certified emission reductions transferred to the 
mechanism regist ry in its regular reports to the designated national authorities of the host 
Parties of the activities that generated the certified emission reductions;  
(f) Publish the complete set of serial numbers of cancelled eligible certified 
emission reductions transfer red to the mechanism registry on the clean development 
mechanism registry web page ;6 
IV. Management of financial resources  
13. Requests the Executive Board and the secretariat to ensure the efficient and prudent 
use of resources from the Trust Fund for the Clean Development Mechanism until the end of 
the operation of the processes under the clean development mechanism and its institutions, 
as per a timeline to be determined by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of 
the Parties to the Kyoto P rotocol;  
 
 5 For transfers of eligible certified emission reductions from the Adaptation Fund account.  
 6 https://cdm.unfccc.int/Registry/index.html . FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
 7 14. Recalls  its request7 to the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to review the status of 
the Trust Fund for the Clean Development Mechanism and to develop recommendations for 
consideration by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Kyoto Protocol at its eighteenth session.  
 
 7 Decision 2/CMP.16, para. 22.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
8  Annex  
  Entities accredited and provisionally designated by the 
Executive Board of the clean development mechanism  
[English only]  
Name of entity  Sectoral scopes 
(validation and 
verification)  
Ampere for Renewable Energy (Ampere)a 1, 3, 13  
China Environmental United Certification Center Co., Ltd. (CEC)a 1–15 
Japan Quality Assurance Organisation (JQA)a 1, 3–5, 10, 13 –14 
Korea Energy Agency (KEA)a 1, 3–5, 7, 9, 11 –15 
Korea Testing & Research Institute (KTR)a 1, 3–5, 11, 13  
Korean Foundation for Quality (KFQ)a 1–5, 9, 11, 13, 15  
Korean Standards Association (KSA)a 1–5, 9–10, 13 –15 
Re Carbon Gözetim Denetim ve Belgelendirme Limited Sirketi  
(Re Carbon)a 1–3, 13, 15  
RINA Services S.p.A. (RINA)a 1–7, 9–11, 13 –15 
ERM Certification and Verification Services Limited (ERM CVS)b 1, 3–5, 8–10, 13  
Foundation for Industrial Development – Management System 
Certification Institute (Thailand) (MASCI)b 1, 13  
a  Accreditation granted for five years . 
b  Expiration  of the accreditation in its entirety . 
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
 FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
 9 Decision 3/CMP.17  
Guidance on the implementation of Article 6 of the Kyoto 
Protocol  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol ,  
Recalling Articles 3 and 6 of the Kyoto Protocol,  
Also recalling  decision 9/CMP.1 and subsequent guidance provided by the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol relating 
to joint implementation , 
1. Takes note with appreciation  of the latest annual report of the Joint Implemen tation 
Supervisory Committee to the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties 
to the Kyoto Protocol1 and the recommendation therein to consider discontinuing the 
Committee’s activities and functions;   
2. Notes the low level of activity under joint implementation, with the most recent 
activity under Track 12 and Track 23 occurring in 2015 and 2014 respectively;  
3. Commends the work undertaken by the Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee 
since its 1st meeting, in February 2006;  
4. Decides  to terminate the Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee established by 
decision 9/CMP.1, paragraph 3;  
5. Requests  the secretariat to take the necessary steps to conclude matters relating to the 
operations of the Committee and to prepare a report on the operation of Track 2, with 
recommendations on the orderly management of residual resources and other matters relevant 
to the termination of the Committee, for consideration by the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto  Protocol at its eighteenth session 
(November –December  2023).   
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
 
 
 1 FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/6 . 
 2 See decision 9/CMP.1, annex, para. 23.  
 3 The verification procedure under the Joint Implementati on Supervisory Committee, defined in 
decision 9/CMP.1, annex, paras. 30 –45. FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
10  Decision 4/CMP.17  
Report of the Adaptation Fund Board for 2022  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Recalling  decisions 1/CMP.3, 1/CMP.4, 2/CMP.10, 1/CMP.11, 2/CMP.12, 
1/CMP.13, 1/CMP.14, 3/CMP.15 and 3/CMP.16,  
Also recalling  decision 13/CMA.1,  
1. Takes note of the an nual report of the Adaptation Fund Board for 2022, including its 
addendum, and the information therein;1  
2. Notes the following information , actions and decisions relating to the Adaptation Fund 
Board presented in the report referred  to in paragraph 1 above:  
(a) The accreditation of 1 national implementing entity and 2 regional 
implementing entities (with the national implementing entities grante d direct access to 
resources from the Adaptation Fund), resulting in a total number of accredited implementing 
entities of 34 national (of which 10 in the least developed countries and 7 in small island 
developing States), 14 multilateral and 9 regional im plementing entities, of which 33 were 
reaccredited (17 national implementing entities, 5 regional implementing entities and 11 
multilateral implementing entities) for accessing resources from the Adaptation Fund 
directly;  
(b) Cumulative  receipts of USD  1,235.0 6 million, as at 30 June 2022, into the 
Adaptation Fund Trust Fund , comprising USD  211.80 million from the monetization of 
certified emission reductions, USD 982.00 million from contributions and USD  41.26 
million from investment income earned on the Trust  Fund balance;  
(c) Contributions of USD 127.65 million,  of which USD 3.42 million from the 
monetization of certified emission  reductions, USD 123.18 million from additional 
contributions and USD  1.05 million from investment income, received between 1 July 2021  
and 30 June 2022;  
(d) Contributions  amounting to USD 123.18 million received between 1 July 2021 
and 30 June 2022 and new pledges amounting to USD 349.00 million, of which USD 174.40 
million received as at 8 November 2022, towards  the Adaptation Fund resource  mobilization 
target of USD 120.00 million per year for the biennium 2020 –2021;   
(e) Outstanding pledged contributions of USD  174.60 million as at 8 November 
2022;  
(f) Resources available for new funding approvals amounting to USD  219.25 
million as at 30 June 2022 ; 
(g) New funding approvals, including for concrete single -country and regional 
(multi -country) proposals, grant proposals under the Medium -Term Strategy of the 
Adaptation Fund for 2018 –20222 and readiness grants, amounting to USD  94.10 million as 
at 30 June 2022;  
(h) An active pipeline of project and programme proposals amounting to 
USD  333.70 million as at 30 June 2022, reflecting  an upward trend from previous years;  
(i) Cumulative project and programme approvals increasing by around 11 per cent 
to USD  929.72 million between 1 July 2021 and 30 June 2022;  
(j) The approval of eight single -country project or programme proposals 
submitted by implementing entities, totalling USD  53.10 million, of which two proposals 
submitted by national implementing entities , amounting to USD  1.80 million; one single -
 
 1 FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/4 –FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/3 and Add.1 . 
 2 See Adaptation Fund Board document AFB/B.39/5/Rev.2 . FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
 11 country proposal submitted by a regional implementing entity, amounting to USD  10.00 
million; and five single -country proposals submitted by multilateral implementing entities, 
totalling USD  41.30 million;  
(k) The ap proval of three multi -country  projects, amounting to USD  39.90 
million;  
(l) Cumulative  disbursements to the 132 projects approved since the 
operationalization of the Adaptation Fund amounting  to USD  567.84 million, including 
USD  76.40 million disbursed between  1 July 2021 and 30 June 2022;  
(m) The implementation of 80 projects , of which 5 initiated and 10 completed , 
between 1 July 2021 and 30 June 2022 ;  
(n) The approval of two small -grant proposals for innovation amounting to 
USD  0.50 million and one learning  grant  amounting to USD  0.15 million as well as the 
commencement of the second year of implementation of the Adaptation Fund Climate 
Innovation Accelerator;  
(o) Access for developing countries to the Adaptation Fund Climate Innovation 
Accelerator through the U nited Nations Development Programme, in addition to through the 
United Nations Environment Programme and the Climate Technology Centre and Network 
for countries without national implementing entities;  
(p) New activities under the Medium -Term Strategy of the Ad aptation Fund for 
2018 –2022, including the approval of large grants for innovation,  a funding window for 
enhanced direct access and  guidance for implementing entities ;  
(q) The launch of a virtual learning course on accessing project scale -up grants, 
the publi cation of knowledge products  on key emerging themes in relation to climate 
adaptation, including transboundary approaches and youth engagement, and the streamlining 
of the Adaptation Fund accreditation process;  
(r) The organization of readiness events, held v irtually, for accredited national 
implementing entities, including seminars, workshops and learning events on accessing 
Adaptation Fund grants, innovation, global accreditation and enhanced direct access, and a 
country exchange for South –South learning;  
(s) The approval of the 2022 –2025 resource mobilization strategy3 and the 
resource mobilization action plan of the Adaptation Fund;4 
(t) The approval of options for enhancing civil society participation and 
engagement in Adaptation Fund  work;  
(u) The approval of the Adaptation Fund  evaluation policy,5 which replaces the 
current evaluation framework;  
(v) The application of the updated Adaptation Fund gender policy and action plan 
and the consideration of ways to advance gender equality and the empower ment of  women 
and girls in relation to addressing climate change;  
(w) The approval by the Adaptation Fund Board of  the amendments to the strategic 
priorities, policies and guidelines, and operational policies and guidelines of the Adaptation 
Fund;6 
(x) The promotion of linkages of the Adaptation Fund with other UNFCCC 
bodies, such as the Adaptation Committee, the Climate  Technology Centre and Network, the 
Global Environment Facility, the Green Climate Fund, the Paris Committee on Capacity -
building and the Standing Committee on Finance, with the Adaptation Fund Board having 
progress ed in establishing linkages between the A daptation Fund and the Green Climate 
 
 3 See Adaptation Fund Board document AFB/B.39/6/Add.1/Rev.2.  
 4 See Adaptation Fund Board document  AFB/B.39/6/Add.2/Rev.1 . 
 5 See Adaptation Fund  Board document AFB/EFC.29/6/Rev.1 .  
 6 See decision 3/CMP.16, para. 6.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
12  Fund, including through a framework for promoting the scale -up of funded projects and the 
Community of Practice for Direct Access Entities;  
(y) The adoption of the Medium -Term Strategy of the Adaptation Fund for 
2023 –2027 ; 
3. Welcomes the financial pledges to the Adaptation Fund made by the Governments of 
Austria, France, Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Japan, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, 
Republic of Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United States of America, as well as 
the government of the Walloon Region of Belgium and the provincial government of Quebec, 
equivalent to USD 211.58 million;  
4. Stresses  the urgency of enhancing ambition and action in relation to adaptation and 
adaptation finance in this critical decade;  
5. Notes  the outstanding pledged contributions to the Adaptation Fund and urges  Parties 
to fulfil their pledges as soon as possible;  
6. Encourages  continued and increased voluntary contributions of financial resources to 
the Adaptation Fund in line with the 2022 –2025  resource mobilization strategy of the Fund;  
7. Recalls  the invitation of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Paris Agreement7 to developed country Parties to consider multi -annual pledges 
to the Fund;  
8. Underscores the urgency of scaling up financial resources, including the provision of 
voluntary support, that are additional to the share of proceeds levied on certified emission 
reductions in order to support the resource mobilization efforts of the Adaptation Fund Board 
with a view to strengthening the Adaptation Fund;  
9. Emphasizes the importance of continuing to take actions to promote the adequacy and 
predictability of adaptation  finance, taking into account the role of the Adaptation Fund in 
delivering dedicated support for adaptation;  
10. Notes with appreciation  the work of the Adaptation Fund Board on adopting the 
amended operational policies and guidelines8 for developing country  Parties to access 
resources from the Adaptation Fund and adopts  the amended strategic priorities, policies and 
guidelines of the Adaptation Fund;9 
11. Requests the Adaptation Fund Board to consider, in line with its mandate and decision 
1/CMP.3, providing su pport for country -driven adaptation projects and programmes in 
developing countries with a view to assisting them in enhancing implementation of their 
national adaptation plans and other voluntary adaptation planning processes;  
12. Takes note  of the Board’s wo rk on complementarity and coherence with other 
multilateral climate funds with respect to accreditation and other areas of operations and 
encourages  the Board to continue this work to streamline access modalities for project 
approval and the interoperabili ty of reporting requirements, as appropriate;  
13. Requests the Board to adopt a policy on safeguarding against sexual exploitation and 
abuse and sexual harassment.  
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
 
 
 7 See decision 1/CMA.3, para. 16.  
 8 See Adaptation Fund Board document AFB/B.39/9/Add.2 . 
 9 See Adaptation Fund Board document AFB/B.39/9/Add.1 . FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
 13 Decision 5/CMP.17  
Fourth review of the Adaptation Fund  
 The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
 Recalling  decisions 1/CMP.8, 2/CMP.13 and 4/CMP.16,  
 Reiterating the crucial importance of the Adaptation Fund as an essential channel for 
supporting adaptation action and a pioneer of direct access to adaptation finance, together 
with it s focus on funding the full costs of concrete adaptation projects and programmes in 
developing countries,  
 Noting with concern the continued issues related to the sustainability, adequacy and 
predictability of funding from the Adaptation Fund, given the cu rrent prices of certified 
emission reductions, which affect its ability to fulfil its mandate,  
 Noting the importance of the full operationalization of Article 6 of the Paris 
Agreement in the context of scaling up the mobilization of Adaptation Fund resources,  
1. Takes note  of the technical paper on the fourth review (covering 2018 –2021) of the 
Adaptation Fun d,1 which was prepared on the basis of the terms of reference for the review;2  
2. Welcomes  the positive results and performance of the Adaptation Fund, including its 
relevance, efficiency and effectiveness;  
3. Recognizes  the comparative advantages of the Adap tation Fund, including the speed 
of project approval, strategic engagement of stakeholders at the subnational level, various 
institutional benefits, efficiency of institutional arrangements, enhancement of country 
ownership in the funding process, direct a nd regional access modalities and readiness 
programmes;  
4. Also recognizes  the lessons learned and progress made since the third review of the 
Adaptation Fund, including the launch of new funding windows,3 the growth of the Fund’s 
project portfolio and the u pdate of the Fund’s gender and evaluation policies, while 
acknowledging opportunities for improvement with regard to, inter alia, instruments, 
financial windows and knowledge management;  
5. Encourages  the Adaptation Fund to strengthen ongoing efforts related to promoting 
resilience measures, improving policies and regulation, innovation, and development and 
diffusion of innovative adaptation practices, tools and technologies;  
6. Welcomes the increased contributions made to the Adaptation Fund during the fourth 
review period compared with the previous period;4 
7. Notes  with concern  the outstanding pledged contributions to the Adaptation Fund and 
urges  Parties that have not fulfilled their pledges to do so as soon as possible;  
8. Stresses the importance of financial cont ributions to the Adaptation Fund, including 
in the context of urging developed country Parties to at least double their collective provision 
of climate finance for adaptation to developing countries from 2019 levels by 2025, in the 
context of achieving a b alance between mitigation and adaptation in the provision of 
scaled -up financial resources, recalling Article 9, paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreement, as per 
decision 1/CMA.3, para graph  18; 
 
 1 FCCC/TP/2022/1.  
 2 Decision 4/CMP.16 , annex.  
 3 Enhanced direct access grants, learning grants, project scale -up grants, Adaptation Fund Climate 
Innovation Accelerator , and small and large innovation grants.  
 4 Contributions during the period of the fourth review (2018 –2021) amounted to USD 684 million,  or 
272 per cent more than the contributions of USD 251.4 million during the period of the third review 
(2015 –2017).  FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
14  9. Calls  for continued and increased voluntary contributions of financ ial resources to the 
Adaptation Fund;  
10. Notes the importance of further enhancing the predictability of resources channelled 
through the Adaptation Fund;  
11. Also notes  that multi -year contributions to the Adaptation Fund enhance the 
predictability of its funding, acknowledges  that some developed country Parties have already 
committed to multi -year contributions to the Fund and encourages  additional multi -year 
contributi ons to the Fund;  
12. Notes the resource mobilization strategy of the Adaptation Fund (2017 –2020),5 which 
refers for the first time to subnational governments, the private sector and charitable 
foundations as possible additional sources of finance for the Adap tation Fund and encourages  
the Adaptation Fund Board to continue its efforts to mobilize finance from a variety of 
sources under its next resource mobilization strategy (2022 –2025);6 
13. Also encourages  the Adaptation Fund Board to continue to enhance access to the 
Fund, including by:  
(a) Strengthening engagement with and support for building the institutional 
capacity of national implementing entities;  
(b) Expediting the disbursement of approved adaptation grants;  
(c) Further strengthening coherence and complementarity b etween the Adaptation 
Fund and other institutions ’ funding adaptation projects and programmes, including the 
Green Climate Fund, in order to facilitate streamlining access modalities, as appropriate, 
including for accreditation , and scaling up Adaptation F und projects;  
(d) Further improving geographical and thematic coverage in the accreditation of 
national and regional implementing entities;  
14. Requests  the Adaptation Fund Board to include in its annual report to the Conference 
of the Parties serving as the meet ing of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at its eighteenth 
session and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement at its fifth session (November –December  2023) information on aggregated actual 
results of proj ects and programmes funded by the Adaptation Fund, in particular across the 
Fund’s five core indicators, accompanied by qualitative analysis of successes, challenges and 
lessons learned;  
15. Also requests the Board to review and update the environmental and s ocial safeguard 
policy of the Adaptation Fund, as needed;  
16. Further requests the Board to increase the gender -responsiveness of the resources 
provided by the Adaptation Fund;  
17. Invites  the Board to consider ways to strengthen the engagement of the Adaptation 
Fund with the private sector in order to increase private sector participation in adaptation 
action;  
18. Notes  that some Adaptation Fund policy and guidance documents and readiness 
activities are available or conducted in multiple official languages of the United Nations and 
invites  the Adaptation Fund Board to continue to strengthen its provision of support and 
country engagement at the regional level;  
19. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its sixty -second session (June 
2025) to initiate the fifth review of the Adaptation Fund in accordance with the terms of 
reference contained in the annex to decision 4/CMP.16, or as amended, and to report back to 
its governing bodies at t he session to be convened in conjunction with the thirty -first session 
of the Conference of the Parties (2026);  
 
 5 See Adaptation Fund Board document AFB/B.32/Inf.6 . 
 6 See Adaptation Fund Board document AFB/B.39/6/Add.1/Rev.2 . FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
 15 20. Notes  the recommendation of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation7 that 
subsequent reviews of the Adaptation Fund include a request for the se cretariat to prepare a 
technical paper on the review, including inputs and submissions from Parties, for 
consideration by the Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its session that follows the 
adoption of the relevant terms of reference, to allow for subst antive engagement.  
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
 
 
 7 FCCC/SBI/2022/10, para. 113.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
16  Decision 6/CMP .17 
Compliance Committee  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Recalling  Article 18 of the Kyoto Protocol,  
Also recalling  decisions 27/CMP.1, 4/CMP.2, 4/CMP.4 and 8/CMP.9 , 
Having  considered  the annual report of the Compliance  Committee to the Conference 
of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol ,1 
Recognizing  the importance of  enabling members and alternate members of the 
Compliance Committee of the Kyoto Protocol to remain in office until the ir successors have 
been elected and allowing  for the intersessional replacement of members and alternate 
members , 
Noting  with appreciation  the work of the Compliance Committee during the reporting 
period , 
1. Adopts  the amendments to the rules of procedure of  the Compliance Committee of the 
Kyoto Protocol contained in the annex, in accordance with the provisions of decision 
27/CMP.1, annex, chapter III, paragraph 2(d);  
2. Encourages  Parties to ensure sufficient allocation of resources when considering the 
budget of the Legal Affairs division of the secretariat for the biennium 2024 –2025 in support 
of the work of the Compliance Committee.  
  
 
 1 FCCC/KP/ CMP /2022/ 2.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
 17 Annex  
Amendments to the rules of procedure of the Compliance 
Committee of the Kyoto Protocol  
The “Rules of procedure of the Compliance Committee of the Kyoto Protocol” 
contained in the annex to decision 4/CMP.2, as amended by decisions 4/CMP.4 and 
8/CMP.9, are further amended as follows:  
(a) The following text should be inserted at the end of rule 3, paragraph 1:  
“Each member and alternate member shall remain in office until his or her successor 
is elected.”  
(b) The following text should replace rule 3, paragraph 5:  
“If a member or an al ternate member resigns or is otherwise unable to complete the 
assigned term of office or to perform the functions of that office, the Committee may 
decide, bearing in mind the proximity of the next session of the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the me eting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol, to appoint another 
member or alternate member from the same group or constituency to replace the said 
member or alternate member for the remainder of the term of that member or alternate 
member, in which case the  appointment shall count as one term.”  
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2022  
 FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
18   Decision 7/CMP.17  
 Report of the forum on the impact of the implementation of  
response measures  
The Conference of the Parties and the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol , 
Recalling  decisions 7/CP.24, 3/CMP.14, 7/CMA.1, 4/CP.25, 4/CMP.15, 19/CP.26 
and 7/CMP.16,  
1. Welcome  the Katowice Committee of Experts on the Impacts of the Implementation 
of Response Measures annual reports for 20191 and 2021 –2022;2  
2. Take note of the conclusion of consideration of the Katowice Committee on Impacts 
annual reports for 2019 and 2021 –2022 by the forum on the impact of the implementation of 
response measures;  
3. Adopt  the recommendations forwarded by the forum contained in sections I –VI 
below, pertaining to : 
(a) Lessons learned and best practices from analysis and assessment of positive 
and negative impacts of the implementation of response measures by Parties;  
(b) Activities 2, 3, 4, 5 and 11 respectively of the workplan of the forum and its 
Katowice Committee on I mpacts;3 
4. Invite  Parties, observer organizations and stakeholders to implement the 
recommendations in sections I –VI below, as applicable;  
5. Request the forum and its Katowice Committee on Impacts and the secretariat to 
implement the recommendations in sectio ns I–VI below, as applicable;  
6. Appreciate the progress of the Katowice Committee on Impacts in supporting the 
work of the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures;  
7. Welcome  the informal notes prepared by the Chairs of the Subsidiary Bod y for 
Scientific and Technological Advice and the Subsidiary Body for  Implementation for the 
workshops held in conjunction with the fifty -sixth sessions of the subsidiary bodies on 
workplan activities 3, 4, 9 and 11;  
8. Appreciate  the technical session on imp lementing activities 5 and 11 of the workplan 
and express  their gratitude  to the experts contributing to the work of the forum and its 
Katowice Committee on Impacts;  
9. Also express  their gratitude  to the Government of Antigua and Barbuda, the 
Government of S enegal, the International Labour Organization and the United Nations 
Development Programme for their in -kind, financial, administrative and substantive support 
that contributed to the success of the regional workshops held from  20 to 22 April 2022 in 
St. John’s, Antigua and Barbuda, and from 21 to 23 September 2022 in Saly, Senegal, on 
activity  3 of the workplan;  
10. Note  that the midterm review of the workplan of the forum could not be concluded at 
these sessions, take note  of the informal note on the midterm review4 and request  the forum 
to continue the midterm review at the fifty -eighth sessions of the subsidiary bodies 
(June  2023);  
 
 1 Document KCI/2019/2/4 . 
 2 Document FCCC/SB/2022/6 . 
 3 Contained in annex II to decisions 4/CP.25, 4/CMP.15 and 4/CMA.2 . 
 4 Available at https://unfc cc.int/documents/624251 . The content of the note does not represent 
consensus among Parties . FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
 19 11. Also request  the secretariat to organize a regional workshop on activity 3 of the 
workplan by the fifty -ninth sessions of the subsidiary bodies (November –December 2023), 
in collaboration with relevant organizations and stakeholders, to address regional needs and 
ackno wledge the work that has been carried out by the Katowice Committee on Impacts and 
note that further regional workshops on activity 3 can be decided on by the forum;  
12. Invite  Parties and observers to submit via the submission portal ,5 by April 2023 , their 
views and guiding questions for the review of the functions, work programme and modalities 
of the forum6 and request  the secretariat to prepare the summary of the submissio ns as a basis 
of the discussion of the review, which is to start at the fifty -eighth and conclude at the fifty -
ninth sessions of the subsidiary bodies;  
13. Take note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 3, 11 and 12 above;  
14. Request  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources;  
I. Lessons learned and best practices from analysis and 
assessment of posit ive and negative impacts of the 
implementation of response measures by Parties  
15. Encourage  Parties to consider:  
(a) Developing methodologies and tools, including modelling tools, for the 
assessment and analysis of the impacts of the implementation of response me asures in 
consultation with technical experts, practitioners and other relevant stakeholders, as 
appropriate;  
(b) Building capacity for development and deployment of methodologies and 
tools, in particular of developing country Parties, to inform and support na tional climate 
change mitigation and sustainable development priorities and policies;  
(c) Developing more national, regional and sector -specific case studies involving 
the assessment and analysis of the impacts of the implementation of response measures to 
enable an exchange of experience among Parties;  
II. Activity 27 of the workplan  
16. Encourage  Parties to invest in the early planning of just transition policies that are 
inclusive and based on stakeholder engagement;  
17. Also encourage countries at very low levels of e conomic development to prioritize 
getting the fundamentals right prior to undertaking economic diversification, noting that as 
countries develop, multiple diversification paths become available;  
18. Request  the secretariat, while noting that national circumsta nces differ, to conduct 
peer-to-peer learning, where possible, to facilitate planning and implementation of effective 
policies;  
 
 5 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx . 
 6 Activity e of the workplan as c ontained in annex II to decisions 4/CP.25, 4/CMP.15 and 4/CMA.2 . 
 7 Identify country -driven strategies and best practices on just transition of the workforc e and creation of 
decent work and quality jobs and on economic diversification  and transformation focusing on 
challenges and opportunities from the implementation of low greenhouse gas emission policies and 
strategies towards the achievement of sustainable  development . FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
20  III. Activity 38 of the workplan  
19. Encourage  Parties to:  
(a) Consider the availability of country -level expertise, training, support and 
consultancy services when selecting a tool or methodology for assessing the impacts of the 
implementation of response measures;  
(b) Invest in data collection in line with national and international standards (for 
example, the United Nations System of National A ccounts or the System of Environmental -
Economic Accounting);  
(c) Establish capacity -building partnerships and networks for increasing the 
representation of developing countries in the use and development of impact assessment tools 
and methods for assessing the  impacts of the implementation of response measures;  
(d) Consider both qualitative and quantitative methods for assessing the impact of 
the implementation of response measures;  
20. Request  the forum and its Katowice Committee on Impacts to:  
(a) Facilitate the enhancem ent of the capacity of Parties, in particular developing 
country Parties, to develop and use impact assessment methodologies and tools for 
conducting their own assessments and analyses of the impacts of response measures, 
including on decent work and quali ty jobs, and economic, social, environmental, domestic, 
cross -border, positive and negative impacts; this includes facilitating the development of case 
studies as appropriate and the organization of targeted regional hands -on training workshops;  
(b) Develop an d maintain a web -based user interface for selecting tools and 
methodologies and promote its use among Parties and stakeholders, as appropriate; a user 
manual for the interface could also be developed;  
21. Also request  the secretariat to regularly update the existing database of tools and 
methodologies suitable for assessing the impacts of the implementation of response 
measures, as needed and as appropriate;  
IV. Activity 49 of the workplan  
22. Encourage  Parties to:  
(a) Foster int ernational cooperation to identify and share best practices and 
experience of countries that have successfully diversified their economies;  
(b) Identify barriers, domestic and non -domestic alike, as well as ways in which 
the international community could facil itate the sustainable economic development of all 
Parties;  
23. Request  prioritization of the developing and sharing of case studies by Parties and 
experts, in particular on developing country Parties, on both just transition and economic 
diversification and tr ansformation in order to understand the opportunities and challenges 
faced in their planning and implementation;  
24. Also r equest  facilitation of the development of robust assessment tools and 
methodologies that can capture a range of multidimensional impacts of the implementation 
of response measures;  
 
 8 Facilitate the development, enhancement, customization and use of tools and methodologies for 
modelling and assessing the impacts of the implementation of response measures, including 
identifying and reviewing existing tools and approaches  in data -poor environments, in consultation 
with technical experts, practitioners and other relevant stakeholders . 
 9 Enhance the capacity and understanding of Parties, through collaboration and input from 
stakeholders, on the assessment and analysis of th e impacts of the implementation of response 
measures to facilitate the undertaking of economic diversification and transformation and just 
transition . FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
 21 25. Encourage  relevant agencies, financial institutions and UNFCCC constituted bodies 
to enhance support for addressing issues related to the assessment and analysis of the impacts 
of the implementation of mitigation actions, policies and programmes, including national ly 
determined contributions and long -term low -emission development strategies, with a view to 
addressing the adverse impacts and maximizing opportunities;  
26. Also encourage  relevant agencies to enhance and develop their existing training 
frameworks and module s on assessment and analysis so that they can be used for country -
level training programmes and for developing impact assessment tools and methods;  
V. Activity 510 of the workplan  
27. Encourage Parties to:  
(a) Promote partnerships in research and development, includi ng identifying risks 
and opportunities, and peer -to-peer learning involving relevant national and international 
stakeholders from public and private sectors, as well as civil society, local communities and 
indigenous peoples, youth, workers and research an d academia in new industries and 
businesses;  
(b) Promote inter - and intracountry exchange of experience, best practices, 
research outcomes and learning on new industries and businesses, including by identifying 
relevant skills, making best use of existing know ledge and capabilities, and developing new 
skills through targeted training, retooling, retraining and reskilling;  
(c) Explore new technologies, carbon capture, utilization and storage, hydrogen 
and artificial intelligence tools to maximize the positive and mi nimize the negative impacts 
of the implementation of response measures;  
(d) Develop regulatory frameworks, as appropriate, for carbon capture, transport, 
utilization and storage, and hydrogen production, infrastructure and transport at the national, 
regional o r global level to explore the possibility of standardizing the design and application, 
as appropriate, while ensuring high safety standards;  
(e) Remove barriers and strengthen policy support for carbon capture, utilization 
and storage to drive innovation and d eployment to the scale -up, ensuring specific policy 
incentives critical to expanding the market frontier worldwide;  
(f) Collaborate on methodologies for calculating life cycle greenhouse gas 
emissions from hydrogen production, as needed, and developing compreh ensive and science -
based terminology and relevant standards for hydrogen deployment to promote widespread 
adoption of the hydrogen economy, while also removing barriers;  
28. Also encourage  Parties, observer organizations and other relevant stakeholders to 
enga ge the private sector, including small and medium -sized enterprises, to facilitate the 
identification and exchange of experience and best practices to promote the creation of decent 
work and quality jobs in new industries and businesses;  
29. Further encourage  Parties and stakeholders to foster collaboration, undertake joint 
pilot activities and programmes, and share knowledge, lessons learned and best practices, 
including from governments, business communities, research and academia, artificial 
intelligence exp erts and civil society groups;  
30. Encourage  relevant stakeholders to undertake economic and financial analyses, 
including assessment of the diversification of investments and business models, for 
investment in the hydrogen economy, and to undertake scientific  assessments to understand 
the national resource endowment potential for sustainable hydrogen production;  
 
 10 Build awareness and understanding of Parties and other stakeholders to assess the economic impacts 
of potential new industries and businesses resulting from the implementation of response measures 
with a view to maximizing the positive and minimizing the negative impacts of the implementation of 
response measures . FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
22  VI. Activity 1111 of the workplan  
31. Encourage  Parties to undertake more in -depth analysis on the impacts of response 
measures, quantifying the co -benefits f or the response measures, categorizing where the 
co-benefits come from and who the beneficiaries of the co -benefits are, with a view to 
informing integrated climate actions;  
32. Request  the Katowice Committee on Impacts to enhance the capacity of Parties, in 
particular developing country Parties, to develop and use country -specific tools and 
methodologies for assessing the environmental, social and economic co -benefits of climate 
change policies and actions.  
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
 
 
 11 Facilitate, exchange and sha re experiences and best practices in the assessment of the environmental, 
social and economic co -benefits of climate change policies and actions informed by the best available 
science, including the use of existing tools and methodologies . FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
 23 Decision 8/CMP.17  
Administrative, financial and institutional matters  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Recalling Article 13, paragraph 5, of the Kyoto Protocol,  
Also recalling  the financial procedures for the Conference of the Parties, which also 
apply to the Kyoto Protocol,1 
Having  considered  the information contained in the documents prepared by the 
secretariat on administrative, financial and institutional matters,2 
I. Budget  performance for the biennium 2020 –2021  
1. Takes note  of the information contained in the report on budget performance for the 
biennium 2020 –2021 as at 31 December 20213 and the note on the status of contributions to 
the trust funds administered by the secre tariat as at 23 May 2022;4 
2. Expresses its appreciation  to Parties that made contributions to the core budget in a 
timely manner;  
3. Expresses concern  regarding the high level of outstanding contributions to the core 
budget for the current and previous bienniu ms, which has resulted in difficulties with cash 
flow and the effective implementation of activities;  
4. Strongly urges  Parties that have not made contributions in full to the core budget for 
the current and/or previous bienniums  to do so without further delay;  
5. Expresses its appreciation  for the contributions to the Trust Fund for Participation in 
the UNFCCC Process and to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities received from 
Parties, including those contributions that allow f or greater flexibility in allocation;  
6. Urges  Parties to further contribute to the Trust Fund for Participation in the UNFCCC 
Process in order to ensure the widest possible participation in the process in 2022 –2023, and 
to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Ac tivities to ensure a high level of implementation of 
the UNFCCC work programme;  
7. Reiterates its appreciation  to the Government of Germany for its annual voluntary 
contribution to the core budget of EUR 766,938 and its special contribution  of 
EUR  1,789,522 as Host Government of the secretariat;  
8. Requests  the Executive Secretary to take further measures to reduce Parties’ 
outstanding contributions;  
II. Other budgetary matters  
9. Takes note  of the information contained in the document prepared by the secretariat 
on ef forts to further improve the efficiency and transparency of the UNFCCC budget 
process;5  
 
 1 Decision 15/C P.1, annex I . 
 2 FCCC/SBI/2022/3 and Add.1, FCCC/SBI/2022/9, FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.1, FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.2, 
FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.3, FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.7 and FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.9.  
 3 FCCC/SBI/2022/3 and Add.1.  
 4 FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.9.  
 5 FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.2 .  FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
24  10. Also takes note  of the information contained in the note by the secretariat on the 
revised scales of indicative contributions for 2022 –2023;6 
11. Adopts  the indicative s cale of contributions contained in the annex;  
12. Decides  that the scale of contributions contained in the annex shall also be applicable 
for 2022, covering 11 per cent of the contributions specified in table 1 in decision 22/CP.26;  
13. Takes note  of the information contained in the note on the updated work programme 
of the secretariat for the biennium 2022 –2023;7 
14. Also takes note  of the information contained in the note on possible long -term 
financing strategies for secretariat employee benefit li abilities;8 
15. Further takes note  of the mechanisms currently in place for funding employee 
benefits, as summarized in section III of the note referred to in paragraph 14 above;  
16. Requests the secretariat to continue implementing the mechanisms referred in 
paragraph 15 above;  
17. Also requests the secretariat to inform the Subsidiary Body for Implementation of any 
relevant developments with regard to the funding of employee benefits, including any 
relevant resolutions adopted by the United Nations General Assembly;  
18. Strongly urges the secretariat to publish documents on budgetary matters in a timely 
manner;  
III. UNFCCC annual  report  
19. Takes note  of the information contained in the annual report on 2021 secretariat 
activities, programme delivery highlights and financial per formance.9 
  
 
 6 FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.1.  
 7 FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.3 .  
 8 FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.7.  
 9 FCCC/SBI/2022/9.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
 25 Annex  
  Indicative scale of contributions from Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol for 2022 –2023  
Party  United Nations scale of assessments for 
2022–2024 (%)  UNFCCC revised indicative scale of 
contributions for 2022 –2023 (%)  
Afghanistan  0.006  0.008  
Albania  0.008  0.010  
Algeria  0.109  0.141  
Angola  0.010  0.013  
Antigua and Barbuda  0.002  0.003  
Argentina  0.719  0.930  
Armenia  0.007  0.009  
Australia  2.111  2.731  
Austria  0.679  0.878  
Azerbaijan  0.030  0.039  
Bahamas  0.019  0.025  
Bahrain  0.054  0.070  
Bangladesh  0.010  0.013  
Barbados  0.008  0.010  
Belarus  0.041  0.053  
Belgium  0.828  1.071  
Belize  0.001  0.001  
Benin  0.005  0.006  
Bhutan  0.001  0.001  
Bolivia (Plurinational State of)  0.019  0.025  
Bosnia and Herzegovina  0.012  0.016  
Botswana  0.015  0.019  
Brazil  2.013  2.604  
Brunei Darussalam  0.021  0.027  
Bulgaria  0.056  0.072  
Burkina Faso  0.004  0.005  
Burundi  0.001  0.001  
Cabo Verde  0.001  0.001  
Cambodia  0.007  0.009  
Cameroon  0.013  0.017  
Central African Republic  0.001  0.001  
Chad  0.003  0.004  
Chile  0.420  0.543  
China  15.254  19.735  
Colombia  0.246  0.318  
Comoros  0.001  0.001  
Congo  0.005  0.006  
Cook Islands  0.000  0.001  
Costa Rica  0.069  0.089  
Côte d’Ivoire  0.022  0.028  
Croatia  0.091  0.118  
Cuba  0.095  0.123  
Cyprus  0.036  0.047  FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
26  Party  United Nations scale of assessments for 
2022–2024 (%)  UNFCCC revised indicative scale of 
contributions for 2022 –2023 (%)  
Czechia  0.340  0.440  
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea  0.005  0.006  
Democratic Republic of the Congo  0.010  0.013  
Denmark  0.553  0.715  
Djibouti  0.001  0.001  
Dominica  0.001  0.001  
Dominican Republic  0.067  0.087  
Ecuador  0.077  0.100  
Egypt  0.139  0.180  
El Salvador  0.013  0.017  
Equatorial Guinea  0.012  0.016  
Eritrea  0.001  0.001  
Estonia  0.044  0.057  
Eswatini  0.002  0.003  
Ethiopia  0.010  0.013  
European Union  0.000  2.500  
Fiji 0.004  0.005  
Finland  0.417  0.540  
France  4.318  5.587  
Gabon  0.013  0.017  
Gambia  0.001  0.001  
Georgia  0.008  0.010  
Germany  6.111  7.906  
Ghana  0.024  0.031  
Greece  0.325  0.420  
Grenada  0.001  0.001  
Guatemala  0.041  0.053  
Guinea  0.003  0.004  
Guinea -Bissau  0.001  0.001  
Guyana  0.004  0.005  
Haiti  0.006  0.008  
Honduras  0.009  0.012  
Hungary  0.228  0.295  
Iceland  0.036  0.047  
India  1.044  1.351  
Indonesia  0.549  0.710  
Iran (Islamic Republic of)  0.371  0.480  
Iraq 0.128  0.166  
Ireland  0.439  0.568  
Israel  0.561  0.726  
Italy 3.189  4.126  
Jamaica  0.008  0.010  
Japan  8.033  10.393  
Jordan  0.022  0.028  
Kazakhstan  0.133  0.172  
Kenya  0.030  0.039  
Kiribati  0.001  0.001  
Kuwait  0.234  0.303  
Kyrgyzstan  0.002  0.003  FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
 27 Party  United Nations scale of assessments for 
2022–2024 (%)  UNFCCC revised indicative scale of 
contributions for 2022 –2023 (%)  
Lao People’s Democratic Republic  0.007  0.009  
Latvia  0.050  0.065  
Lebanon  0.036  0.047  
Lesotho  0.001  0.001  
Liberia  0.001  0.001  
Libya  0.018  0.023  
Liechtenstein  0.010  0.013  
Lithuania  0.077  0.100  
Luxembourg  0.068  0.088  
Madagascar  0.004  0.005  
Malawi  0.002  0.003  
Malaysia  0.348  0.450  
Maldives  0.004  0.005  
Mali  0.005  0.006  
Malta  0.019  0.025  
Marshall Islands  0.001  0.001  
Mauritania  0.002  0.003  
Mauritius  0.019  0.025  
Mexico  1.221  1.580  
Micronesia (Federated States  of) 0.001  0.001  
Monaco  0.011  0.014  
Mongolia  0.004  0.005  
Montenegro  0.004  0.005  
Morocco  0.055  0.071  
Mozambique  0.004  0.005  
Myanmar  0.010  0.013  
Namibia  0.009  0.012  
Nauru  0.001  0.001  
Nepal  0.010  0.013  
Netherlands  1.377  1.782  
New Zealand  0.309  0.400  
Nicaragua  0.005  0.006  
Niger  0.003  0.004  
Nigeria  0.182  0.235  
Niue  0.000  0.001  
North Macedonia  0.007  0.009  
Norway  0.679  0.878  
Oman  0.111  0.144  
Pakistan  0.114  0.147  
Palau  0.001  0.001  
Panama  0.090  0.116  
Papua New Guinea  0.010  0.013  
Paraguay  0.026  0.034  
Peru 0.163  0.211  
Philippines  0.212  0.274  
Poland  0.837  1.083  
Portugal  0.353  0.457  
Qatar  0.269  0.348  
Republic of Korea  2.574  3.330  FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
28  Party  United Nations scale of assessments for 
2022–2024 (%)  UNFCCC revised indicative scale of 
contributions for 2022 –2023 (%)  
Republic of Moldova  0.005  0.006  
Romania  0.312  0.404  
Russian Federation  1.866  2.414  
Rwanda  0.003  0.004  
Saint Kitts and Nevis  0.002  0.003  
Saint Lucia  0.002  0.003  
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines  0.001  0.001  
Samoa  0.001  0.001  
San Marino  0.002  0.003  
Sao Tome and Principe  0.001  0.001  
Saudi Arabia  1.184  1.532  
Senegal  0.007  0.009  
Serbia  0.032  0.041  
Seychelles  0.002  0.003  
Sierra Leone  0.001  0.001  
Singapore  0.504  0.652  
Slovakia  0.155  0.201  
Slovenia  0.079  0.102  
Solomon Islands  0.001  0.001  
Somalia  0.001  0.001  
South Africa  0.244  0.316  
Spain  2.134  2.761  
Sri Lanka  0.045  0.058  
Sudan  0.010  0.013  
Suriname  0.003  0.004  
Sweden  0.871  1.127  
Switzerland  1.134  1.467  
Syrian Arab Republic  0.009  0.012  
Tajikistan  0.003  0.004  
Thailand  0.368  0.476  
Timor -Leste  0.001  0.001  
Togo  0.002  0.003  
Tonga  0.001  0.001  
Trinidad and Tobago  0.037  0.048  
Tunisia  0.019  0.025  
Türkiye  0.845  1.093  
Turkmenistan  0.034  0.044  
Tuvalu  0.001  0.001  
Uganda  0.010  0.013  
Ukraine  0.056  0.072  
United Arab Emirates  0.635  0.822  
United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland  4.375  5.660  
United Republic of Tanzania  0.010  0.013  
Uruguay  0.092  0.119  
Uzbekistan  0.027  0.035  
Vanuatu  0.001  0.001  
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)  0.175  0.226  
Viet Nam  0.093  0.120  FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
 29 Party  United Nations scale of assessments for 
2022–2024 (%)  UNFCCC revised indicative scale of 
contributions for 2022 –2023 (%)  
Yemen  0.008  0.010  
Zambia  0.008  0.010  
Zimbabwe  0.007  0.009  
Total  75.365  100.000  
a 
 
Note s: (1) For presentation purposes, all percentage figures for the UNFCCC revised indicative scale of 
contributions have been given to three decimal places; ( 2) Cook Islands, the European Union and Niue are Parties to 
the Kyoto Protocol but not United Nations Member States . 
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 202 2 
 FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
30  Decision 9/CMP.17  
Administrative, financial and institutional matters  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Recalling  Article 13, paragraph 5, of the Kyoto Protocol,  
Also recalling  the financial procedures for the Conference of the Parties, which also 
apply to the Kyoto Protocol,1 
Taking note  of decision 27/CP.27,  
Having  considered  the information contained in the documents prepared by the 
secretariat on administrative, financial a nd institutional matters for this session,2 
I. Audit report and financial statements for 2021  
1. Takes note  of the financial report and audited financial statements for 2021 and the 
report of the United Nations Board of Auditors, which include recommendations, and the 
comments of the secretariat thereon;  
2. Expresses its appreciation  to the United Nations for arra nging the audit of the 
accounts of the Convention;  
3. Also expresses its appreciation  to the auditors for their valuable observations and 
recommendations;  
4. Expresses  concern  about the high number of recommendations from the United 
Nations Board of Auditors not  yet implemented by the secretariat;  
5. Urges  the Executive Secretary to implement the recommendations of the auditors , as 
appropriate, and to update Parties on progress;  
II. Other financial and budgetary matters  
6. Takes note  of the information contained in the not e on the updated work programme 
of the secretariat for the biennium 2022 –2023;3 
7. Also takes note  of the information contained in the note on the status of contributions 
to the trust funds administered by the secretariat as at 21 October 2022;4 
8. Expresses i ts appreciation  to Parties that made contributions to the core budget in a 
timely manner;  
9. Expresses concern  regarding the high level of outstanding contributions to the core 
budget for the current and previous bienniums, which has resulted in difficulties with cash 
flow and the effective implementation of activities;  
10. Strongly urges  Parties that have not made contributions in full to the core budget for 
the current and/or previous bienniums to do so without further delay;  
11. Expresses its appreciation  for the c ontributions to the Trust Fund for Participation in 
the UNFCCC Process and to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities received from 
Parties, including those contributions that allow for greater flexibility in allocation;  
 
 1 Decision 15/CP.1, annex I . 
 2 FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.10  and Add.1 , FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.11  and FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.16 . 
 3 FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.11 . 
 4 FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.16 . FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
 31 12. Urges  Parties to further contri bute to the Trust Fund for Participation in the UNFCCC 
Process in order to ensure the widest possible participation in the process in 2022 –2023, and 
to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities to ensure a high level of implementation of 
the UNFCCC work programme;  
13. Reiterates its appreciation  to the Government of Germany for its annual voluntary 
contribution to the core budget of EUR 766,938 and its special contribution  of 
EUR  1,789,522 as Host Government of the secretariat;  
14. Requests  the Executive Secretary to take further measures to reduce Parties’ 
outstanding contributions.  
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2022  
 FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
32  Resolu tion 1/CMP.17  
Expression of gratitude to the Government of the Arab 
Republic of Egypt and the people of the city of Sharm 
el-Sheikh  
Resolution submitted by the United Arab Emirates  
The Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement , 
Having met  in Sharm el -Sheikh from 6 to 20 November 2022,  
1. Express their profound gratitude to the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt 
for having made it possible for the twenty -seventh session of the Conference of the Parties, 
the seventeenth session of the Con ference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties 
to the Kyoto Protocol and the fourth session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement to be held in Sharm el -Sheikh;  
2. Request the Government of  the Arab Republic of Egypt to convey to the city and 
people of Sharm el -Sheikh the gratitude of the Conference of the Parties, the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of 
the Parties serv ing as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement for the hospitality and 
warmth extended to the participants.  
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
     