t nationally determined contributions , parties shall provide the information necessary for clarity , transparency and understanding contained in annex i as applicable to their nationally determined contri butions , and strongly encourages parties to provide this information in relation to their fi
d/or economic diversification plans consistent with article 4 , paragraph 7 , of the paris agreement shall provide the information referred to in annex i as applicable to its nationally determined contribution and as it relates to such mitigation co -benefits ; guidance for accounting for parties ’
consideration of further guidance on features of nationally determined contributions at its seventh session ( 2024 ) . fccc/pa/cma/2018/3/add.1 9 annex i information to facilitate clarity , transparency and understanding of nationally determined contributions , referred to in decision 1/cp.21 , par
us , or disability , as well as the ecosystems they depend on , in the implementation of the warsaw international mechanism ; 3 fccc/sbi/2019/9 , annex i , and fccc/sbsta/2019/2 , annex . 4 fccc/sb/2019/5 and add.1 . 5 pursuant to decision 4/cp.22 , para . 4 ( d ) . fccc/pa/cma/2019/6/add.1 6 16. e
m on the impact of the implementation of response measures ; 2. adopt the rules of procedure of the katowice committee on impacts as contained in annex i ; 3. adopt the workplan of the forum on the im pact of the implementation of response measures and its katowice committee on impacts as contained
ndertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 1 available at https : //unfccc.int/documents/202723 . fccc/pa/cma/2019/6/add.1 12 annex i rules of procedure of the katowice committee of experts on the impacts of the implementation of response measures i. scope 1. these rules of proc
rt referred to in article 13 ,2 1. adopts : ( a ) the guidance relating to decision 2/cma.3 , annex , chapter vi.a ( tracking ) , as contained in annex i ; ( b ) the guidelines for the article 6 technical expert review referred to in decision 2/cma.3 , annex , chapter v ( review ) , as contained in
aches of the participating parties requesting such services , which may be required in ad dition to the relevant guidance in decision 2/cma.3 and annex i to this decision ; ( h ) the accounts of the international registry and the role of the international registry administrator , in accordance with
he accounts of the international registry and the role of the international registry administrator , in accordance with the guidance contained in annex i ; ( i ) the submission of i nformation by parties using the international registry as the basis for tracking internationally transferred mitigati
international registry as the basis for tracking internationally transferred mitigation outcomes ; ( j ) the common nomenclature s referred to in annex i , chapter ii.b , including for cooperative approaches reported by participating parties , first transferring party , sectors , activity types , n
m and the article 6 database referred to in decision 2/cma.3 , annex , paragraphs 32 and 35 , on the basis of th e relevant guidance contained in annex i , chapters ii–iii , and to make available a test version by june 2024 with a view to the first version being finalized by june 2025 ; 26. also re
ions under articles 6 and 13 , including by integrating the submission portal of the centralized accounting and reporting platform referred to in annex i , paragraph 30 ( b ) , with the submission portal for article 13 reporting with a view to efficiently managing the submission of information requ
r r equests the sec retariat to develop , publish and periodically update , for participating parties opting to apply the guidance referred to in annex i , chapter i.b , standards and recommended practices for electronic recording of data and information related to internationall y transferred miti
ursuant to decision 2/cma.3 , annex , paragraph 30 , to : ( a ) implement the international registry in accordance with the guidance contained in annex i , chapter i.c , while prioritizing the requirements as per annex i , chapter i.a –b , and make it avail able to participating parties not later t
lement the international registry in accordance with the guidance contained in annex i , chapter i.c , while prioritizing the requirements as per annex i , chapter i.a –b , and make it avail able to participating parties not later than 2024 ; ( b ) provide an interim solution for participating part
ns of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . fccc/pa/cma/2022/ 10/add.2 8 annex i * guidance relating to decision 2/cma.3 , annex , chapter vi ( recording and t racking ) i. guidance relating to the registries referred to in de
 pursuant to chapter vii ( ambition in mitigation and adaptation actions ) , if applicable ( para . 22 ( k ) , update to para . 18 ( i ) ( vi ) ) annex i on additional information annex ii for confidential information fccc/pa/cma/2022/ 10/add.2 29 annex vii * draft version of the agreed electronic 
 basis of the rules , modalities and procedures for the mechanism established by article 6 , par agraph 4 , of the paris agreement , contained in annex i ; 2. welcomes the designation of national authorities for the mechanism by 28 parties as at 18 november 2022 ; 3. reminds parties wishing to part
ng as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement ; 13. notes that the levels of share of proceeds for administrative expenses contained in annex i , chapter v , are to be reviewed periodically4 for the sound operation of the supervisory body and for enabling a periodic contribution of funds 
s of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . fccc/pa/cma/2022/ 10/add.2 37 annex i elaboration of the processes defined in the rules , modalities and procedures for the mechanism established by article 6 , paragraph 4 , of the p
welcomes the pledges th at have already been made to the santiago network ; 8. adopts the terms of reference of the santiago network contained in annex i ; 9. decides to establish the advisory board of the santiago network as part of the warsaw international mechanism for loss and damage associated
er the authority and guidance of and accountable to the appropriate governing body or bodies4 and have the roles and responsibilities outlined in annex i ; 10. also decides that the members of the advis ory board will be elected at the next session of the governing body or bodies ( november –decemb
and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change , as well as the roles and responsibilities of the advisory board referred to in annex i , taking into account the need for gender balance , in accordance with decisions 36/cp.7 , 23/c p.18 and 3/cp.25 , and the composition of the adv
he need for gender balance , in accordance with decisions 36/cp.7 , 23/c p.18 and 3/cp.25 , and the composition of the advisory board outlined in annex i ; 11. further decides that the members elected to the advisory board shall serve a term of two years and shall be eligible to serve a maximum of 
cedures for the santiago n etwork under the guidance of and by approval of the advisory board on the basis of the terms of reference contained in annex i , and taking into account decision 19/cma.3 , paragraph 9 , endorsed in decision 17/cp.26 , and decision 1/cma.3 , paragraph 67 , inclu ding : ( 
ns of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . fccc/pa/cma/2022/ 10/add.3 7 annex i terms of reference of the santiago network for averting , minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climat
ty -building , the capacity -building hub and social media outreach ; 1 fccc/sbi/2022/14 . 2 fccc/sbi/2022/14 , chap . iii . 3 fccc/sbi/2020/13 , annex i . 4 fccc/sbi/2022/14 , annex i . 5 available at https : //unfccc.int/documents/461613 ; the conclusions are contained in chap . v. 6 paris commit
ilding hub and social media outreach ; 1 fccc/sbi/2022/14 . 2 fccc/sbi/2022/14 , chap . iii . 3 fccc/sbi/2020/13 , annex i . 4 fccc/sbi/2022/14 , annex i . 5 available at https : //unfccc.int/documents/461613 ; the conclusions are contained in chap . v. 6 paris committee on capacity -building . 202
e information in the national inventory reports of anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks of greenhouse gases , as contained in annex i ; ( b ) the common tabular formats referred to in chapter iii of the annex to decision 18/cma.1 for the electronic reporting of the information n
 the availability of financial resources . 1 . 2 https : //www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/pages/home.aspx . fccc/pa/cma/2021/10/add.2 7 annex i common reporting tables for the electronic reporting of the information in the natio nal inventory reports of anthropogenic emissions by sources 
ive of the paris agreement , and suitable for inclusion in its biennial transparency report annexes as outlined in the annex to decision 18/cma.1 annex i : technical annexes for redd+,17 as applicable annex ii : common reporting tables for the electronic reporting of the national inventory report o
frames for improvements ( related to non - mandatory provisions as per para . 7 ( c –d ) of the mpgs ) annexes to the national inventory document annex i : key categories ( flexibility provided to those developing country parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per para . 25 of the
he work of the forum and its katowice committee on impacts ; 5. adopts the recommendations pertaining t o activity 1 of the workplan contained in annex i , forwarded by the forum in the 2020 –2021 annual report of the katowice committee on impacts , and invites parties to implement them , as applic
 to minimize the adverse impacts and maximize the positive impacts of the implementation of response measures on the recommendations contained in annex i ; 9. recalls the rules of procedure of the katowice committee on impacts 4 and encourages groups to nominate members to the katowice committee on
ces . 5 https : //www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/pages/home.aspx . 6 as per decision 19/cma.1 , para . 24. fccc/pa/cma/2021/10/add.3 46 annex i recommendations forwarded by the forum pertaining to activity 1 of the workplan : exploring approaches to inform the development and implementati
s the meeti ng of the parties to the kyoto protocol , recalling article 3 , paragraph 7 ter , of the amendment to the kyoto protocol contained in annex i to decision 1/cmp.8 ( the doha amendment ) , taking note of the request from kazakhstan to clarify the provision of ar ticle 3 , paragraph 7 ter 
3 , paragraph 7 ter , of the doha amendment , 1. clarifies that article 3 , paragraph 7 ter , of the amendment to the kyoto protocol contained in annex i to decision 1/cmp.8 ( the doha amendment ) is applicable , for the second commitment period , to parties tha t did not have a quantified emission
arties with a quan tified emission limitation or reduction commitment inscribed in the third column of annex b to the kyoto protocol contained in annex i to decision 1/cmp.8 shall clarify , in their reports to facilitate the calculation of the assigned amount submitted pursua nt to decision 2/cmp.8
and source categories as those used to calculate the assigned amount for the second commitment period ; 3. decides that , for a party included in annex i undergoing the process of transition to a market economy and without a quantified emission limitati on or reduction commitment in the first commi
hat , for the purpose of the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol and pending the entry into force of the doha amendment , contained in annex i to decis ion 1/cmp.8 , any references in this decision and decision 2/cmp.8 to annex a , annex b , article 3 , paragraphs 1 bis , 1 ter , 1 quate
mitment period , unless otherwise specified in this decision , any references in decision 13/cmp.1 and in annexes i and ii to parties included in annex i or to parties shall be understood as referring to parties included in annex i with commitments inscribed in the third column of annex b ; 4. also
in decision 13/cmp.1 and in annexes i and ii to parties included in annex i or to parties shall be understood as referring to parties included in annex i with commitments inscribed in the third column of annex b ; 4. also clarifies that , for the purpose of the second commitment period , unless oth
itment period , unless otherwise specified in this decision , any ref erences in decision 13/cmp.1 and in annexes i and ii to parties included in annex i or to parties are not applicable to the parties included in annex i without quantified emission limitation and reduction commitments for the seco
f erences in decision 13/cmp.1 and in annexes i and ii to parties included in annex i or to parties are not applicable to the parties included in annex i without quantified emission limitation and reduction commitments for the second commitment period ; 5. deci des that , for the purpose of the sec
 to as the 2006 ipcc guidelines ) , as implemented through the “ guidelines for the preparation of national communications by parties included in annex i to the convention , part i : unfccc reporting guidelines on annual gre enhouse gas inventories ” and the 2013 revised supplementary methods and g
t decisions 14/cmp.1 , 17/cmp.1 and 6/cmp.3 shall not apply for the purpose of the second commitment period ; 8. decides that parties included in annex i without quantified emission limit ation and reduction commitments for the second commitment period shall provide information on which voluntary a
dopts the revisions to the modalities for the accounting of assigned amounts under article 7 , paragraph 4 , of the kyoto protocol1 as set out in annex i ; 10. recalls that , pursuant to article 4 of the kyoto protocol , each party to an agreement to fulfil their commitments under article 3 of the 
 assigned amounts , be responsible for its own level of emissions as set out in that agreement ; 11. decides that each of the parties included in annex i that have reached an agreement to fulfil their commitments under article 3 of the kyoto protocol jointly , in accordance with article 4 of the ky
heir reports , so as to facilitate the calculation of the assigned amount submitted pursuant to decision 2/cmp.8 , how the infor mation listed in annex i to that decision , the application of article 3 , paragraph 7 ter , 1 decision 13/cmp.1 , annex . fccc/kp/cmp/2015/8/add.1 7 including its techni
 contained in annex ii for reporting in accordance with paragraph 11 of the annex to decision 15/cmp.1 ; 13. decides that each p arty included in annex i with a quantified emission limitation or reduction commitment inscribed in the third column of annex b shall annually report tables in a standard
e 2017 standard electronic format submission , the “ reported year ” will be the 2016 calendar year ) ; 14. also decides that a party included in annex i without a quantified emission limitation or reduction commitment inscribed in the third column of annex b shall continue to provide relevant info
les in conjunction with its annual inventory submission for the second commitment period , in accordance with decisions 13/cmp.1 and 15/cmp.1 and annex i to this decision , if its registry is connected to the international transaction log at any time during the relevant calendar year ; 15. further 
saction log at any time during the relevant calendar year ; 15. further decides that , for the second commit ment period , each party included in annex i with a quantified emission limitation or reduction commitment inscribed in the third column of annex b shall submit its first standard electronic
 t ransparent manner , taking into account environmental integrity at the international level ; 17. also decides that , where a party included in annex i undertakes a corrective transaction to reflect a correction to the compilation and accounting database applied b y the compliance committee , pur
le 7 of the kyoto protocol ” 2 for the second commitment period contained in annex iii . 2 decision 15/cmp.1 , annex . fccc/kp/cmp/2015/8/add.1 9 annex i modalities for the accounting of assigned amounts under article 7 , paragraph 4 , of the kyoto protocol general provisions 1. for the purpose of 
mount pursuant to artic le 3 , paragraphs 7 bis , 8 and 8 bis , for the second commitment period , from 2013 to 2020 , for each party included in annex i with a commitment inscribed in the third column of annex b , shall be equal to the percentage inscribed for it in the third column o f annex b of
issions by sources and removals by sinks under category 4 of the guidelines for the preparation of national communications by parties included in annex i to the convention , part i : un fccc reporting guidelines on annual greenhouse gas 1 unless otherwise specified in this annex , hereinafter the s
orresponding section headings in the annex to decision 13/cmp.1 . fccc/kp/cmp/2015/8/add.1 10 inventories ( hereinafter referred to as the unfccc annex i inventory reporting guidelines ) 2 as contained in the common reporting format tables ) constituted a net source of greenhouse gas emissions in t
cmp.8 , shall contain the following additional information , in accordance with the following subparagraph , inserted after subparagraph ( m ) in annex i to decision 2/cmp.8 : ( n ) the calculation of the difference between the assigned amount for the second commitment period and average annual emi
3 , paragraphs 7 bis , 8 and 8 bis , any positive difference between the assigned amount for the second commitment period for a party included in annex i and its average annual emissions for the first three years of the preceding commitment period multiplied by eight of each party shall be recorded
inserted after paragraph 23 of the annex to decision 13/cmp.1 : 23 bis . for the purpose of the second commitment period , each party included in annex i shall issue in it s national registry a quantity of aaus equivalent to the assigned amount of that party pursuant to article 3 , paragraphs 7 bis
n accordance with decisions 3/cmp.1 , 9/cmp.1 , 11/cmp.1 and 1/cmp.8 , and may be transferred within registrie s. 33 bis . each party included in annex i may cancel aaus under article 3 , paragraphs 1 ter and 1 quater , so they can not be used in fulfilment of commitments under article 3 , paragrap
egistry . legal entities , where authorized by the party , may also transfer aaus into the cancellation account . 33 ter . each party included in annex i shall cancel aaus pursuant to article 3 , paragraph 7 ter , in accordance with paragraph 12 ( e ) ter above , by transferring them to the appropr
 for the purpose of the second commitment period , prior to the end of the additional period for fulfillin g commitments , each party included in annex i shall retire erus , cers , aaus and/or rmus valid for that commitment period for use towards meeting its commitments under article 3 , paragraph 
rement account for that commitment period in its national registry . 36. for the purpose of the second commitment period , each party included in annex i may c arry over to the subsequent commitment period , in accordance with paragraph 15 of the annex to decision 13/cmp.1 and paragraphs 23 –26 of 
se of the second commitment period , any positive difference between the assigned amount for the second commitment period for a party included in annex i and average annual emissions for the first three years of the preceding commitment period multiplied by eight , pursuant to article 3 , paragraph
nnex ii standard electronic format for reporting information on kyoto protocol units1 i. general reporting instructions 1. each party included in annex i with a quantified emissions limitation or reduc tion commitment inscribed in the third column of annex b shall annually report tables in a standa
ion , the “ reported year ” will be the 2016 calendar year ) . 2. for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol , each party included in annex i shall submit its first sef for reporting kyoto protocol units for the second commitment period in conjunction with its first annual inventory sub
or the second commitment period in conjunction with its first annual inventory submission for that commitment peri od.2 3. each party included in annex i shall submit the sef annually until the expiration of the additional period for the fulfilment of commitments for the relevant commitment period 
ly until the expiration of the additional period for the fulfilment of commitments for the relevant commitment period . 4. if a party included in annex i is undertaking transactions for two or more commitment periods simultaneously , then the party shall provide a separate , complete report for eac
 tables a. table 1. total quantities of kyoto protocol units by account type at beginning of reported year 9. in table 1 , each party included in annex i shall provide information on the total quantity of kyoto protocol units contained in its national registry , by account type and by unit type , a
l units contained in its national registry , by account type and by unit type , as at 1 january of the reported year . 10. each party included in annex i shall report on the total quantities of kyoto protocol units , by unit type , held in each of the following account types : ( a ) “ party holding
llation account ” , for the cancellation of kyoto protocol units following a determination by the compliance committee that the party included in annex i is not in compliance with its commitment under article 3 , paragraph 1 ( paragraphs 12 ( e ) and 21 ( d ) of the annex to decision 13/cmp.1 ) ; (
d ( para graph 50 of the annex to decision 5/cmp.1 and paragraph 3 of appendix d to decision 5/cmp.1 ) . 11. in addition , each party included in annex i shall report on the total quantities of kyoto protocol units , by unit type , held in each of the replacement account ty pes specified in the fol
rs when a certification report has not been provided ( para . 47 ( c ) ) . b. table 2 ( a ) . annual internal transactions 12. in table 2 ( a ) , annex i parties shall report information on the total quantity of kyoto protocol units involved in internal transactions ( those that did not involve ano
f the reported year , as described below , including any correc tive transactions . 13. under the “ article 6 issuance and conversion ” section , annex i parties shall report information relating to joint implementation projects under the kyoto protocol in accordance with the following paragraphs o
he following paragraphs of the annex to decision 9/cmp .1 : ( a ) for “ party -verified projects ” ( also referred to as “ track one ” projects ) annex i parties shall report information pertaining to projects for which emission reductions or the enhancement of removals have been verified by the ho
of removals have been verified by the host party in accordance wit h paragraph 23 of the annex to decision 9/cmp.1 : ( i ) each party included in annex i shall report under “ additions ” the total quantity of erus issued pursuant to paragraph 29 of the annex to decision 13/cmp.1 ; ( ii ) the party 
 paragraph 29 of the annex to decision 13/cmp.1 ; ( b ) for “ independently verified projec ts ” ( also referred to as “ track two ” projects ) , annex i parties shall report information pertaining to projects for which emission reductions or the enhancement of removals have been verified through t
re under the article 6 supervisory committee in accordance with paragraphs 30 –45 of the annex to decision 9/cmp.1 : ( i ) each party included in annex i shall report under “ additions ” the total quantity of erus issued pursuant to paragraph 29 of the annex to decision 13/cmp.1 ; fccc/kp/cmp/2015/
paragraph 29 of the annex to decision 13/cmp.1 . 14. under the section “ article 3.3 and 3.4 issuance or ca ncellation ” , each party included in annex i shall report the quantity of rmus issued or the units cancelled for its lulucf activities under article 3 , paragraphs 3 and 4 , of the kyoto pro
on 13/cmp.1 and paragraphs 7 and 8 of the annex to decision 2/cmp.7 : ( a ) for any activity resulting in a net removal , each party incl uded in annex i shall report under “ additions ” the total quantity of rmus issued pursuant to paragraph 25 of the annex to decision 13/cmp 1 and decision 2/cmp.
annex to decision 13/cmp . 1 and decision 2/cmp.7 . 15. under the section “ article 12 afforestation and reforestation ” , each party included in annex i shall report informat ion relating to afforestation and reforestation project activities under the clean development mechanism ( cdm ) , as speci
ing a non -submission of certification report ( para . 50 and appendix d , para . 3 ) . 16. under “ other cancellation ” , each party included in annex i shall report the total quantities of kyoto protocol units , by type , that were cancelled for the following reasons:5 ( a ) “ voluntary cancellat
.1 ter and quater ambition increase cancellation ” , for cancellations pursuant to paragraph 8 of decision 1/cmp.8 .6 17. each party includ ed in annex i shall sum the quantities of kyoto protocol units in each column and report these under “ sub -total ” . 18. in the box “ retirement ” , each part
 quantities of kyoto protocol units in each column and report these under “ sub -total ” . 18. in the box “ retirement ” , each party included in annex i shall report the following information : ( a ) under the line “ retirement ” , the total quanti ties of kyoto protocol units , by type , that wer
uantities of units that were transferred to its retirement account . c. table 2 ( b ) . total annual external transactions 19. in table 2 ( b ) , annex i parties shall report information on the total quantities of kyoto protocol units involved in external transactions ( those that involved another 
1 december of the reported year , including any corrective transactions . 20. under “ total transfers and acquisitions ” , each party included in annex i shall include a separate row for each registry ( party or cdm registry ) to which it transferred , from which it acquired or from which it was fo
 report9 for a carbon dioxide capture and storage ( ccs ) project activity , under “ subtractions ” on the same line . 21. each party included in annex i shall sum the quantities of kyoto protocol units in each column and report these under “ sub -total ” . 6 cancellations to increase ambition in a
actions between previous period surplus reserve accounts 22. under “ tran sfers and acquisitions between ppsr accounts ” , each party included in annex i shall include a separate row for each registry to which it transferred aaus from its ppsr account or from which it acquired aaus located in a pps
ns ” . this qua ntity shall also be reported under the “ total transfers and acquisitions ” section of table 2 ( b ) . 23. each party included in annex i shall sum the quantities of kyoto protocol units in each column and report these under “ sub -total ” . e. table 2 ( d ) . share of proceed s tra
of each individual aau from the originating registry to the registry of another party , tracked by its serial number . 25. each party included in annex i shall report the quantity of units transferred and of units issued for which a share of the proceeds levy applies and the related quantity of uni
ud ed under the “ transfers and acquisitions ” section of table 2 ( b ) . f. table 2 ( e ) . total annual transactions 26. each party included in annex i shall add the subtotals of tables 2 ( a ) and 2 ( b ) and report the corresponding quantities under “ total ” in table 2 ( e ) . g. table 3. annu
 report the corresponding quantities under “ total ” in table 2 ( e ) . g. table 3. annual expiry , cancellation and replacement 27. in table 3 , annex i parties shall report information on the expiry , cancellation and replacement of tcers , lcers and cers from ccs project activities in accordance
the cdm ( decision 5/cmp.1 ) and the modalities and procedures for ccs in geological formations as cdm project activities ( decision 10/cmp.7 ) . annex i parties shall include all transactions that occurred be tween 1 january and 31 december of the reported year , including any corrective transacti
ctions that occurred be tween 1 january and 31 december of the reported year , including any corrective transactions . 28. each party included in annex i shall report the following information under the section “ temporary cers ” : ( a ) “ expired in retirement and replacement accounts ” : the qua 
entity holding accounts for the previous commitment period and the quantity of units that were cancelled as a result . 29. each party included in annex i shall report the following information under the section “ long -term cers ” : ( a ) “ expired in retirement and replacement accounts ” , the qua
ation as a result of these notifications ; ( d ) “ subject to non -submission of certification report ” , in the event that the party included in annex i ha s received notification ( s ) of non -submission of certification report under a project activity from the cdm executive board , the quantity 
hat the party used for replacement or cancellation as a result of the notification ( s ) . fccc/kp/cmp/2015/8/add.1 25 30. each party included in annex i shall report the following information under the section “ carbon capture and storage cers ” : ( a ) “ subject to net reversal of storage ” , in 
tion ( s ) of a net reversal of storage of a ccs project activity from the cdm executive board , the quantity of units that the party included in annex i is required to cancel pursuant to that notification and the quantity of units that the party included in annex i used for cancellation as a resul
units that the party included in annex i is required to cancel pursuant to that notification and the quantity of units that the party included in annex i used for cancellation as a result of these notifications . the units used to meet this requirement are transferred to the cdm registry and are th
 shall also be reported in table 2 ( b ) ; ( b ) “ subject to non -submission of certification report ” , in the event that the party included in annex i has received notification ( s ) of non -submission of certification report for a ccs project activity from the cdm execu tive board , the quantit
n -submission of certification report for a ccs project activity from the cdm execu tive board , the quantity of units that the party included in annex i is required to replace pursuant to the notification ( s ) and the quantity of units that the party included in annex i used for cancellation as a
that the party included in annex i is required to replace pursuant to the notification ( s ) and the quantity of units that the party included in annex i used for cancellation as a result of the notification ( s ) . the units use d to meet this requirement are transferred to the cdm registry and ar
egistry and are therefore not reported in table 2 ( a ) . these units used to meet this requirement shall also be reported in table 2 ( b ) . 31. annex i parties shall sum the quantities of kyoto protocol units in each column and report these under “ total ” . h. table 4. total quantities of kyoto 
 and report these under “ total ” . h. table 4. total quantities of kyoto protocol units by account type at end of reported year 32. in table 4 , annex i parties shall include information on the total quantities of kyoto protocol units in each account typ e , by unit type , in the national registry
tructure of table 4 follows the structure of table 1. i. table 5 ( a ) . summary information on additions and subtractions 34. in table 5 ( a ) , annex i parties shall report cumulative i nformation for the reported year and previously reported years to facilitate the recording of information for t
eriod in the compilation and accounting database in accordance with the annex to decision 13/cmp.1 and this decision . 35. each party included in annex i shall report the following information : ( a ) “ assigned amount units issued ” , “ additions ” , the total quantity of aaus issued on the basis 
itment period from the ppsr account . j. table 5 ( b ) . summary information on annual transactions 36. in table 5 ( b ) , each party included in annex i shall provide summary information on annual transactions for the reported year and previously reported years for the commitment period : ( a ) fo
( c ) . summary information on annual transactions between previous period surplus reserve accounts 37. in table 5 ( c ) , each party included in annex i shall provide summary information on annual transactions between ppsr accounts for the reported year and for all previously reported years for th
port the sum to date of all transactions . l. table 5 ( d ) . summary information on expiry , cancellation and replacement 38. in table 5 ( d ) , annex i parties shall provide summary inf ormation relating to the replacement and cancellations of tcers , lcers and cers from ccs project activities fo
 lcers and cers from ccs project activities for each reported year for the commitment period . 39. for the reported year , each party included in annex i shall report : 10 this information will not be available until completion of the compliance assessment for the previous commitment period , follo
 . these quantities should match those reported under “ total ” in table 3 . 40. for all years prior to the reported year , the party included in annex i shall repeat the information under “ requirement to replace or cancel ” and under “ replacement ” and “ cancellation ” as reported in the previou
replace or cancel ” and under “ replacement ” and “ cancellation ” as reported in the previous sef . 41. under “ total ” , each party included in annex i shall report the sum of each column . at the end of the commitmen t period , the total quantities of tcers , lcers and cers from ccs project acti
 of kyoto protocol units under “ replacement ” and “ cancellation ” . m. table 5 ( e ) . summary information on retirement 42. in table 5 ( e ) , annex i parti es shall provide summary information on retirement to facilitate the compliance assessment at the end of the additional period for fulfilli
ate the compliance assessment at the end of the additional period for fulfilling commitments . 43. for the reported year , each party included in annex i shall report under “ retirement ” , the total quan tities of kyoto protocol units , by type , retired in that year for the purpose of demonstrati
d match those reported under “ retirement ” , “ total ” , in table 2 ( a ) . 44. for all years prior to the reported year , the party included in annex i shall repeat the information as reported in the previous sef . 45. under “ total ” , each party included in annex i shall report the sum of each 
 year , the party included in annex i shall repeat the information as reported in the previous sef . 45. under “ total ” , each party included in annex i shall report the sum of each column . n. table 6. memo item : cor rective transactions undertaken in the reported year 46. in tables 6 ( a ) to 6
port the sum of each column . n. table 6. memo item : cor rective transactions undertaken in the reported year 46. in tables 6 ( a ) to 6 ( c ) , annex i parties shall report any corrective transactions undertaken in the reported year relating to previously reported years , including transactions t
o decision 15/cmp.1 shall be replaced with the following paragraph : 18. for the purpose of the second commitment period , each party included in annex i shall report the calculation of its commitment period reserve in accordance with the annex to decision 18/cp.7 , decision 11/cmp.1 and paragraph 
 decision 15/cmp.1 shall be replaced with the following paragraph : 19. for the purpos e of the second commitment period , each party included in annex i shall provide access , upon the request of expert review teams , to information held in the national registry relating to the holding accounts re
commitment period , the following paragraph shall be inserted after paragraph 24 of the annex to decision 15/cmp.1 : 24 bis . parties included in annex i without quantified emission limitation and reduction commitments for the second commitment period shall continue to provide information relating 
hat , for the purpose of the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol and pending the entry into force of the doha amendment , contained in annex i to decision 1/cmp.8 , any references in this decision to annex a , annex b , article 3 , paragraphs 1 bis , 1 ter , 1 quater , 7 bis , 7 ter , 8 
d to as the 2006 ipcc guidelines ) as implemented thro ugh the “ guidelines for the preparation of national communications by parties included in annex i to the convention , part i : unfccc reporting guidelines on annual greenhouse gas inventories ” and the 2013 revised supplementary methods and go
ion 22/cmp.1 ; ( h ) all references to paragraphs 6 , 7 and 8 of the annex to decision 13/cmp.1 shall be read as references to paragraph 2 of and annex i to decision 2/cmp.8 , except t hose in paragraphs 2 and 5 of decision 22/cmp.1 ; ( i ) all references to activities under article 3 , paragraph 3
1 shall be read as references to “ as submitted through the report to facilitate the calculation of the assigned amount of each party included in annex i with a commitment inscribed in the third column of annex b to the doha amend ment in accordance with paragraph 2 of decision 2/cmp.8 ” ; ( s ) th
 ” ; 4. adopts the revisions to the “ guidelines for review under article 8 of the kyoto protocol ” for the second commitment period contained in annex i ; 5. also adopts the revisions to the “ good practice guidance and adjustments under article 5 , p aragraph 2 , of the kyoto protocol ” for the s
 for the purpose of the second commitment period , the adjustments referred to in paragraph 5 above are not applicable to the parties included in annex i without quantified emission limitation and reduction commitments for the second commitment period ; 7. requests the secretariat , in view of the 
entories , was not met ; 9. notes that the december 2014 software version of the crf reporte r was not functioning1 in such a manner as to enable annex i parties to prepare their inventory submissions ; 10. reiterates that in 2015 , annex i parties may submit their common reporting format tables af
porte r was not functioning1 in such a manner as to enable annex i parties to prepare their inventory submissions ; 10. reiterates that in 2015 , annex i parties may submit their common reporting format tables after 15 april , but no later than the corresponding delay in crf reporter availability ;
bmission of the report to facilitate the calculation of its assigned amount referred to in decision 2/cmp.8 , paragraph 2 ; 12. acknowledges that annex i parties may submit the report to facilitate the calculation of the assigned amount referred to in paragraph 11 above and make the annual inventor
sions/removals are reported accurately both in terms of crf tables and extensible mar kup language format . fccc/kp/cmp/2015/8/add.1 33 13. urges annex i parties to submit the report to facilitate the calculation of the assigned amount referred to in decision 2/cmp.8 , paragraph 2 , as soon as prac
 calculation of the assigned amount referred to in decision 2/cmp.8 , paragraph 2 , as soon as practically possible . fccc/kp/cmp/2015/8/add.1 34 annex i revisions to the guidelines for review under article 8 of the kyoto protocol i. general approach to review 1. for the purpose of the second commi
ootnote : “ article ” in these guidelines refers to an article of the kyoto protocol or an article in the doha amendment to the kyoto p rotocol ( annex i to decision 1/cmp.8 ) , unless otherwise specified . 2. for the purpose of the second commitment period , footnotes 5 and 6 of the annex to decis
econd commitment period , paragraphs 11 and 12 of the annex to decision 22/cmp.1 shall be replaced by the foll owing : 11. each party included in annex i with a commitment inscribed in the third column of the table contained in annex b to the doha amendment shall be subject to a review of the repor
2/cmp.8 : ( a ) the calculation of the assigned amount pursuant to article 3 , paragraphs 7 bis , 8 and 8 bis , in accordance with paragraph 2 of annex i to decision 3/cmp.11 , and the calculation of the commitment period reserve , for conformity with the modalities for the accounting of assigned a
 the procedures contained in part iii of these guide lines ; 1 ( b ) the information provided in accordance with paragraphs 1 ( f ) to 1 ( k ) in annex i to decision 2/cmp.8 related to the accounting of activities under article 3 , paragraphs 3 and 4 , of the kyoto protocol ; ( c ) with regard to p
8 related to the accounting of activities under article 3 , paragraphs 3 and 4 , of the kyoto protocol ; ( c ) with regard to parties included in annex i with a commitment inscribed in the third column of the table contained in annex b to the doha amendment which did not have a quantified emission 
raph 11 of decision 3/cmp.11 . 4. paragraph 14 of the annex to decision 22/cmp.1 shall be replaced by the following : 14. for parties included in annex i with a commitment inscribed in the third column of the table contained in annex b to the d oha amendment which did not have a quantified emission
he calculation of the assigned amount for the second commitment period shall be conducted as an i n-country visit . for other parties included in annex i the review shall be conducted either as a centralized review or as an in -country visit , giving priority to in -country visits for those parties
ng paragraph shall be inserted after paragraph 15 ( b ) ( iv ) of the annex to decision 22/cmp.1 : 15 ( b ) ( iv ) bis . when a party included in annex i without a quantified emission limitation and reduction commitment for the second commitment period reports information on its national registry i
t indicates any issues related to accounting , transactions , and reporting of units under the kyoto protocol . in such cases parties included in annex i shall provide the expert review team with effective access to their nati onal registry during the review . the relevant parts of paragraphs 9 and
eviews , the same provisions as agreed in the “ unfccc guidelines for the technical review of greenhouse gas inventories from parties included in annex i to the convention ” contained in the annex to decision 13/cp.20 shall apply . 17. for the purpose of the second commitment period , paragraph 59 
itial assessment included in part iii of the “ unfccc guidelines for the technical review of green house gas inventories from parties included in annex i to the convention ” contained in the annex to decision 13/cp.20 . the initial check shall in addition cover whether : ( a ) a party included in a
i to the convention ” contained in the annex to decision 13/cp.20 . the initial check shall in addition cover whether : ( a ) a party included in annex i to the convention has failed to include an estimate fo r a source category ( as defined in chapter 4 of volume 1 of the 2006 ipcc guidelines ) th
otocol as contained in the doha amendment , in the most recent of the party ’ s reviewed inventories in which the source was estimated ; ( b ) an annex i party has failed to provide supplementary information in accordance with annex ii to decision 2/cmp.8 and decision 6/cmp.9 . 18. for the purpose 
iew , the same provisions as included i n the “ unfccc guidelines for the technical review of greenhouse gas inventories from parties included in annex i to the convention ” , contained in the annex to decision 13/cp.20 , shall apply . 19. for the purpose of the second commitment period , paragraph
the same provisions as those included in the “ unfccc guidelines for the technical review of greenhouse gas inventories from parties include d in annex i to the convention ” included in the annex to decision 13/cp.20 shall apply . in addition , the inventory review shall : ( a ) examine the applica
 supplement as adopted by the cop/mop and the “ unfccc guidelines for the technical review of greenhouse gas inventories from parties included in annex i to the convention ” contained in the ann ex to fccc/kp/cmp/2015/8/add.1 38 decision 13/cp.20 and relevant decisions of the conference of the part
. 2. for the purpose of the second commitment period , paragraph 11 of decision 20/cmp.1 shall be replaced by the following : 11. decides that an annex i party may submit a revised estimate for a part of its inventory of a year of the commitm ent period to which an adjustment was previously applied
evised estimate by the expert review team , the revised estimate shall replace the adjusted estimate . in the event of a disagreement between the annex i party and the expert review team regarding the revised estimate , the issue will be forwarded to the compliance committee , which will resolve th
the compliance committee , which will resolve the disagreement in accordance with the procedures and mechanisms on compliance . the option for an annex i party to submit a revised estimate for a part of its inventory to which an adjustment was previously app lied should not prevent annex i parties 
n for an annex i party to submit a revised estimate for a part of its inventory to which an adjustment was previously app lied should not prevent annex i parties from making their best efforts to correct the problem at the time it was initially identified and in accordance with the time frame set f
on d commitment period , the following paragraph shall be inserted after paragraph 11 of decision 20/cmp.1 : 12. decides that parties included in annex i without quantified emission limitation and reduction commitments for the second commitment period may subm it a revised estimate for a part of th
 of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol , including the consideration of requirements for parties included in annex i without a quantified emission limitation and reduction commitment for the second commitment period under the kyoto pro tocol , and to implement t
e the current practice of including , in its annual report on the technical review of greenhouse gas inve ntories reported by parties included in annex i that are also parties to the kyoto protocol to the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice , information on the updated training 
the selection of trainees and instructors , in order for parties to assess the effectiveness of the programme ; 4. encourages parties included in annex i to the convention that are also parties to the kyoto protocol that are in a position to do so to provide financial support for the implementation
 ghg inventory review experts who have successfully completed the basic course for the technical review of ghg inventories of parties included in annex i to the convention ( annex i parties ) . type of course : e-learning , without instructor . examination requirements and format : new ghg inventor
s who have successfully completed the basic course for the technical review of ghg inventories of parties included in annex i to the convention ( annex i parties ) . type of course : e-learning , without instructor . examination requirements and format : new ghg inventory review experts and new lea
y review experts and ghg inventory review experts who have successfully completed the basic course for the technical review of ghg inventories of annex i parties . type of course : e-learning , facilitated by an instructor . examination requirements and format : new ghg inventory review experts and
13 10/cmp.11 technical review in 2016 of greenhouse gas inventories and initial reports for the second commitment period from parties included in annex i to the convention that are also parties to the kyoto protocol ................................ ................................ . 14 11/cmp.11 ad
on 10/cmp.11 technical review in 2016 of greenhouse gas inventories and initial reports for the second commitment period from parties included in annex i to the convention that are also parties to the kyoto protocol the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto pr
 meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol has adequate and reliable information on annual greenhouse gas inventories from parties included in annex i to the convention that are also parties to the kyoto protocol ( parties included in annex i ) , noting that owing to a delay in the availability 
l greenhouse gas inventories from parties included in annex i to the convention that are also parties to the kyoto protocol ( parties included in annex i ) , noting that owing to a delay in the availability of a functioning crf reporter and pending the finalization of the full set of accounting , r
nalization of the full set of accounting , reporting and review modalities under articles 5 , 7 and 8 of the kyoto protocol , parties included in annex i were unable to submit in 2015 some of the information required under article 7 , paragraph 1 , of the kyoto protocol , or their reports to facili
onal work , 1. requests the secretariat to organize the review of the 2015 and 2016 greenhouse gas inventory submissions from parties included in annex i to the convention that are also parties to the kyoto protocol ( parties included in annex i ) , including the review of the supplementary informa
se gas inventory submissions from parties included in annex i to the convention that are also parties to the kyoto protocol ( parties included in annex i ) , including the review of the supplementary information submit ted under article 7 , paragraph 1 , of the kyoto protocol , in conjunction with 
tanding issues related to transparency and accuracy , noting that the crf reporter is not yet fully fu nctioning ; 4. invites parties included in annex i that have not yet submitted their 2015 greenhouse gas inventories and supplementary information required under article 7 , paragraph 1 , of the k
 ensure the widest possible participation in the negotiations in 2016 , and to the trust fund for supplementary activities ; 1 decision 15/cp.1 , annex i , as revised by decision 23/cp.20 . 2 fccc/sbi/2015/13 , fccc/sbi/2015/inf.10 and fccc/sbi/2015/inf.17 . 3 fccc/sbi/2015/13 . 4 fccc/sbi/2015/inf
r the biennium 2016 –2017 as it applies to the kyoto protocol ; 2 2. adopts the indicativ e scale of contributions for 2016 and 2017 contained in annex i , covering 28.8 per cent of the indicative contributions specified in table 1 of decision 22/cp.21 ; 3. invites all parties to the kyoto protocol
/cp.20 , three operational ap proaches may be used for implementing the technical review of the greenhouse gas inventories of parties included in annex i to the convention , namely desk reviews , centralized reviews and in -country reviews , assuming available resources , and recognizes tha t the s
p.20 in 2016 –2017 , taking into account the programme budget and supplementary resources provided for under this decision . 3 decision 15/cp.1 , annex i , as revised by decision 23/cp.20 . 4 fccc/sbi/2015/3/add.1 . 5 fccc/sbi/2015/3/add.3 . fccc/kp/cmp/2015/8/add.2 19 annex i [ english only ] indi
 3 decision 15/cp.1 , annex i , as revised by decision 23/cp.20 . 4 fccc/sbi/2015/3/add.1 . 5 fccc/sbi/2015/3/add.3 . fccc/kp/cmp/2015/8/add.2 19 annex i [ english only ] indicative scale of contributions from parties to the kyoto protocol for the biennium 2016 –2017 party united nations scale of a
s the meeti ng of the parties to the kyoto protocol , recalling article 3 , paragraph 7 ter , of the amendment to the kyoto protocol contained in annex i to decision 1/cmp.8 ( the doha amendment ) , taking note of the request from kazakhstan to clarify the provision of ar ticle 3 , paragraph 7 ter 
3 , paragraph 7 ter , of the doha amendment , 1. clarifies that article 3 , paragraph 7 ter , of the amendment to the kyoto protocol contained in annex i to decision 1/cmp.8 ( the doha amendment ) is applicable , for the second commitment period , to parties tha t did not have a quantified emission
arties with a quan tified emission limitation or reduction commitment inscribed in the third column of annex b to the kyoto protocol contained in annex i to decision 1/cmp.8 shall clarify , in their reports to facilitate the calculation of the assigned amount submitted pursua nt to decision 2/cmp.8
and source categories as those used to calculate the assigned amount for the second commitment period ; 3. decides that , for a party included in annex i undergoing the process of transition to a market economy and without a quantified emission limitati on or reduction commitment in the first commi
hat , for the purpose of the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol and pending the entry into force of the doha amendment , contained in annex i to decis ion 1/cmp.8 , any references in this decision and decision 2/cmp.8 to annex a , annex b , article 3 , paragraphs 1 bis , 1 ter , 1 quate
mitment period , unless otherwise specified in this decision , any references in decision 13/cmp.1 and in annexes i and ii to parties included in annex i or to parties shall be understood as referring to parties included in annex i with commitments inscribed in the third column of annex b ; 4. also
in decision 13/cmp.1 and in annexes i and ii to parties included in annex i or to parties shall be understood as referring to parties included in annex i with commitments inscribed in the third column of annex b ; 4. also clarifies that , for the purpose of the second commitment period , unless oth
itment period , unless otherwise specified in this decision , any ref erences in decision 13/cmp.1 and in annexes i and ii to parties included in annex i or to parties are not applicable to the parties included in annex i without quantified emission limitation and reduction commitments for the seco
f erences in decision 13/cmp.1 and in annexes i and ii to parties included in annex i or to parties are not applicable to the parties included in annex i without quantified emission limitation and reduction commitments for the second commitment period ; 5. deci des that , for the purpose of the sec
 to as the 2006 ipcc guidelines ) , as implemented through the “ guidelines for the preparation of national communications by parties included in annex i to the convention , part i : unfccc reporting guidelines on annual gre enhouse gas inventories ” and the 2013 revised supplementary methods and g
t decisions 14/cmp.1 , 17/cmp.1 and 6/cmp.3 shall not apply for the purpose of the second commitment period ; 8. decides that parties included in annex i without quantified emission limit ation and reduction commitments for the second commitment period shall provide information on which voluntary a
dopts the revisions to the modalities for the accounting of assigned amounts under article 7 , paragraph 4 , of the kyoto protocol1 as set out in annex i ; 10. recalls that , pursuant to article 4 of the kyoto protocol , each party to an agreement to fulfil their commitments under article 3 of the 
 assigned amounts , be responsible for its own level of emissions as set out in that agreement ; 11. decides that each of the parties included in annex i that have reached an agreement to fulfil their commitments under article 3 of the kyoto protocol jointly , in accordance with article 4 of the ky
heir reports , so as to facilitate the calculation of the assigned amount submitted pursuant to decision 2/cmp.8 , how the infor mation listed in annex i to that decision , the application of article 3 , paragraph 7 ter , 1 decision 13/cmp.1 , annex . fccc/kp/cmp/2015/8/add.1 7 including its techni
 contained in annex ii for reporting in accordance with paragraph 11 of the annex to decision 15/cmp.1 ; 13. decides that each p arty included in annex i with a quantified emission limitation or reduction commitment inscribed in the third column of annex b shall annually report tables in a standard
e 2017 standard electronic format submission , the “ reported year ” will be the 2016 calendar year ) ; 14. also decides that a party included in annex i without a quantified emission limitation or reduction commitment inscribed in the third column of annex b shall continue to provide relevant info
les in conjunction with its annual inventory submission for the second commitment period , in accordance with decisions 13/cmp.1 and 15/cmp.1 and annex i to this decision , if its registry is connected to the international transaction log at any time during the relevant calendar year ; 15. further 
saction log at any time during the relevant calendar year ; 15. further decides that , for the second commit ment period , each party included in annex i with a quantified emission limitation or reduction commitment inscribed in the third column of annex b shall submit its first standard electronic
 t ransparent manner , taking into account environmental integrity at the international level ; 17. also decides that , where a party included in annex i undertakes a corrective transaction to reflect a correction to the compilation and accounting database applied b y the compliance committee , pur
le 7 of the kyoto protocol ” 2 for the second commitment period contained in annex iii . 2 decision 15/cmp.1 , annex . fccc/kp/cmp/2015/8/add.1 9 annex i modalities for the accounting of assigned amounts under article 7 , paragraph 4 , of the kyoto protocol general provisions 1. for the purpose of 
mount pursuant to artic le 3 , paragraphs 7 bis , 8 and 8 bis , for the second commitment period , from 2013 to 2020 , for each party included in annex i with a commitment inscribed in the third column of annex b , shall be equal to the percentage inscribed for it in the third column o f annex b of
issions by sources and removals by sinks under category 4 of the guidelines for the preparation of national communications by parties included in annex i to the convention , part i : un fccc reporting guidelines on annual greenhouse gas 1 unless otherwise specified in this annex , hereinafter the s
orresponding section headings in the annex to decision 13/cmp.1 . fccc/kp/cmp/2015/8/add.1 10 inventories ( hereinafter referred to as the unfccc annex i inventory reporting guidelines ) 2 as contained in the common reporting format tables ) constituted a net source of greenhouse gas emissions in t
cmp.8 , shall contain the following additional information , in accordance with the following subparagraph , inserted after subparagraph ( m ) in annex i to decision 2/cmp.8 : ( n ) the calculation of the difference between the assigned amount for the second commitment period and average annual emi
3 , paragraphs 7 bis , 8 and 8 bis , any positive difference between the assigned amount for the second commitment period for a party included in annex i and its average annual emissions for the first three years of the preceding commitment period multiplied by eight of each party shall be recorded
inserted after paragraph 23 of the annex to decision 13/cmp.1 : 23 bis . for the purpose of the second commitment period , each party included in annex i shall issue in it s national registry a quantity of aaus equivalent to the assigned amount of that party pursuant to article 3 , paragraphs 7 bis
n accordance with decisions 3/cmp.1 , 9/cmp.1 , 11/cmp.1 and 1/cmp.8 , and may be transferred within registrie s. 33 bis . each party included in annex i may cancel aaus under article 3 , paragraphs 1 ter and 1 quater , so they can not be used in fulfilment of commitments under article 3 , paragrap
egistry . legal entities , where authorized by the party , may also transfer aaus into the cancellation account . 33 ter . each party included in annex i shall cancel aaus pursuant to article 3 , paragraph 7 ter , in accordance with paragraph 12 ( e ) ter above , by transferring them to the appropr
 for the purpose of the second commitment period , prior to the end of the additional period for fulfillin g commitments , each party included in annex i shall retire erus , cers , aaus and/or rmus valid for that commitment period for use towards meeting its commitments under article 3 , paragraph 
rement account for that commitment period in its national registry . 36. for the purpose of the second commitment period , each party included in annex i may c arry over to the subsequent commitment period , in accordance with paragraph 15 of the annex to decision 13/cmp.1 and paragraphs 23 –26 of 
se of the second commitment period , any positive difference between the assigned amount for the second commitment period for a party included in annex i and average annual emissions for the first three years of the preceding commitment period multiplied by eight , pursuant to article 3 , paragraph
nnex ii standard electronic format for reporting information on kyoto protocol units1 i. general reporting instructions 1. each party included in annex i with a quantified emissions limitation or reduc tion commitment inscribed in the third column of annex b shall annually report tables in a standa
ion , the “ reported year ” will be the 2016 calendar year ) . 2. for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol , each party included in annex i shall submit its first sef for reporting kyoto protocol units for the second commitment period in conjunction with its first annual inventory sub
or the second commitment period in conjunction with its first annual inventory submission for that commitment peri od.2 3. each party included in annex i shall submit the sef annually until the expiration of the additional period for the fulfilment of commitments for the relevant commitment period 
ly until the expiration of the additional period for the fulfilment of commitments for the relevant commitment period . 4. if a party included in annex i is undertaking transactions for two or more commitment periods simultaneously , then the party shall provide a separate , complete report for eac
 tables a. table 1. total quantities of kyoto protocol units by account type at beginning of reported year 9. in table 1 , each party included in annex i shall provide information on the total quantity of kyoto protocol units contained in its national registry , by account type and by unit type , a
l units contained in its national registry , by account type and by unit type , as at 1 january of the reported year . 10. each party included in annex i shall report on the total quantities of kyoto protocol units , by unit type , held in each of the following account types : ( a ) “ party holding
llation account ” , for the cancellation of kyoto protocol units following a determination by the compliance committee that the party included in annex i is not in compliance with its commitment under article 3 , paragraph 1 ( paragraphs 12 ( e ) and 21 ( d ) of the annex to decision 13/cmp.1 ) ; (
d ( para graph 50 of the annex to decision 5/cmp.1 and paragraph 3 of appendix d to decision 5/cmp.1 ) . 11. in addition , each party included in annex i shall report on the total quantities of kyoto protocol units , by unit type , held in each of the replacement account ty pes specified in the fol
rs when a certification report has not been provided ( para . 47 ( c ) ) . b. table 2 ( a ) . annual internal transactions 12. in table 2 ( a ) , annex i parties shall report information on the total quantity of kyoto protocol units involved in internal transactions ( those that did not involve ano
f the reported year , as described below , including any correc tive transactions . 13. under the “ article 6 issuance and conversion ” section , annex i parties shall report information relating to joint implementation projects under the kyoto protocol in accordance with the following paragraphs o
he following paragraphs of the annex to decision 9/cmp .1 : ( a ) for “ party -verified projects ” ( also referred to as “ track one ” projects ) annex i parties shall report information pertaining to projects for which emission reductions or the enhancement of removals have been verified by the ho
of removals have been verified by the host party in accordance wit h paragraph 23 of the annex to decision 9/cmp.1 : ( i ) each party included in annex i shall report under “ additions ” the total quantity of erus issued pursuant to paragraph 29 of the annex to decision 13/cmp.1 ; ( ii ) the party 
 paragraph 29 of the annex to decision 13/cmp.1 ; ( b ) for “ independently verified projec ts ” ( also referred to as “ track two ” projects ) , annex i parties shall report information pertaining to projects for which emission reductions or the enhancement of removals have been verified through t
re under the article 6 supervisory committee in accordance with paragraphs 30 –45 of the annex to decision 9/cmp.1 : ( i ) each party included in annex i shall report under “ additions ” the total quantity of erus issued pursuant to paragraph 29 of the annex to decision 13/cmp.1 ; fccc/kp/cmp/2015/
paragraph 29 of the annex to decision 13/cmp.1 . 14. under the section “ article 3.3 and 3.4 issuance or ca ncellation ” , each party included in annex i shall report the quantity of rmus issued or the units cancelled for its lulucf activities under article 3 , paragraphs 3 and 4 , of the kyoto pro
on 13/cmp.1 and paragraphs 7 and 8 of the annex to decision 2/cmp.7 : ( a ) for any activity resulting in a net removal , each party incl uded in annex i shall report under “ additions ” the total quantity of rmus issued pursuant to paragraph 25 of the annex to decision 13/cmp 1 and decision 2/cmp.
annex to decision 13/cmp . 1 and decision 2/cmp.7 . 15. under the section “ article 12 afforestation and reforestation ” , each party included in annex i shall report informat ion relating to afforestation and reforestation project activities under the clean development mechanism ( cdm ) , as speci
ing a non -submission of certification report ( para . 50 and appendix d , para . 3 ) . 16. under “ other cancellation ” , each party included in annex i shall report the total quantities of kyoto protocol units , by type , that were cancelled for the following reasons:5 ( a ) “ voluntary cancellat
.1 ter and quater ambition increase cancellation ” , for cancellations pursuant to paragraph 8 of decision 1/cmp.8 .6 17. each party includ ed in annex i shall sum the quantities of kyoto protocol units in each column and report these under “ sub -total ” . 18. in the box “ retirement ” , each part
 quantities of kyoto protocol units in each column and report these under “ sub -total ” . 18. in the box “ retirement ” , each party included in annex i shall report the following information : ( a ) under the line “ retirement ” , the total quanti ties of kyoto protocol units , by type , that wer
uantities of units that were transferred to its retirement account . c. table 2 ( b ) . total annual external transactions 19. in table 2 ( b ) , annex i parties shall report information on the total quantities of kyoto protocol units involved in external transactions ( those that involved another 
1 december of the reported year , including any corrective transactions . 20. under “ total transfers and acquisitions ” , each party included in annex i shall include a separate row for each registry ( party or cdm registry ) to which it transferred , from which it acquired or from which it was fo
 report9 for a carbon dioxide capture and storage ( ccs ) project activity , under “ subtractions ” on the same line . 21. each party included in annex i shall sum the quantities of kyoto protocol units in each column and report these under “ sub -total ” . 6 cancellations to increase ambition in a
actions between previous period surplus reserve accounts 22. under “ tran sfers and acquisitions between ppsr accounts ” , each party included in annex i shall include a separate row for each registry to which it transferred aaus from its ppsr account or from which it acquired aaus located in a pps
ns ” . this qua ntity shall also be reported under the “ total transfers and acquisitions ” section of table 2 ( b ) . 23. each party included in annex i shall sum the quantities of kyoto protocol units in each column and report these under “ sub -total ” . e. table 2 ( d ) . share of proceed s tra
of each individual aau from the originating registry to the registry of another party , tracked by its serial number . 25. each party included in annex i shall report the quantity of units transferred and of units issued for which a share of the proceeds levy applies and the related quantity of uni
ud ed under the “ transfers and acquisitions ” section of table 2 ( b ) . f. table 2 ( e ) . total annual transactions 26. each party included in annex i shall add the subtotals of tables 2 ( a ) and 2 ( b ) and report the corresponding quantities under “ total ” in table 2 ( e ) . g. table 3. annu
 report the corresponding quantities under “ total ” in table 2 ( e ) . g. table 3. annual expiry , cancellation and replacement 27. in table 3 , annex i parties shall report information on the expiry , cancellation and replacement of tcers , lcers and cers from ccs project activities in accordance
the cdm ( decision 5/cmp.1 ) and the modalities and procedures for ccs in geological formations as cdm project activities ( decision 10/cmp.7 ) . annex i parties shall include all transactions that occurred be tween 1 january and 31 december of the reported year , including any corrective transacti
ctions that occurred be tween 1 january and 31 december of the reported year , including any corrective transactions . 28. each party included in annex i shall report the following information under the section “ temporary cers ” : ( a ) “ expired in retirement and replacement accounts ” : the qua 
entity holding accounts for the previous commitment period and the quantity of units that were cancelled as a result . 29. each party included in annex i shall report the following information under the section “ long -term cers ” : ( a ) “ expired in retirement and replacement accounts ” , the qua
ation as a result of these notifications ; ( d ) “ subject to non -submission of certification report ” , in the event that the party included in annex i ha s received notification ( s ) of non -submission of certification report under a project activity from the cdm executive board , the quantity 
hat the party used for replacement or cancellation as a result of the notification ( s ) . fccc/kp/cmp/2015/8/add.1 25 30. each party included in annex i shall report the following information under the section “ carbon capture and storage cers ” : ( a ) “ subject to net reversal of storage ” , in 
tion ( s ) of a net reversal of storage of a ccs project activity from the cdm executive board , the quantity of units that the party included in annex i is required to cancel pursuant to that notification and the quantity of units that the party included in annex i used for cancellation as a resul
units that the party included in annex i is required to cancel pursuant to that notification and the quantity of units that the party included in annex i used for cancellation as a result of these notifications . the units used to meet this requirement are transferred to the cdm registry and are th
 shall also be reported in table 2 ( b ) ; ( b ) “ subject to non -submission of certification report ” , in the event that the party included in annex i has received notification ( s ) of non -submission of certification report for a ccs project activity from the cdm execu tive board , the quantit
n -submission of certification report for a ccs project activity from the cdm execu tive board , the quantity of units that the party included in annex i is required to replace pursuant to the notification ( s ) and the quantity of units that the party included in annex i used for cancellation as a
that the party included in annex i is required to replace pursuant to the notification ( s ) and the quantity of units that the party included in annex i used for cancellation as a result of the notification ( s ) . the units use d to meet this requirement are transferred to the cdm registry and ar
egistry and are therefore not reported in table 2 ( a ) . these units used to meet this requirement shall also be reported in table 2 ( b ) . 31. annex i parties shall sum the quantities of kyoto protocol units in each column and report these under “ total ” . h. table 4. total quantities of kyoto 
 and report these under “ total ” . h. table 4. total quantities of kyoto protocol units by account type at end of reported year 32. in table 4 , annex i parties shall include information on the total quantities of kyoto protocol units in each account typ e , by unit type , in the national registry
tructure of table 4 follows the structure of table 1. i. table 5 ( a ) . summary information on additions and subtractions 34. in table 5 ( a ) , annex i parties shall report cumulative i nformation for the reported year and previously reported years to facilitate the recording of information for t
eriod in the compilation and accounting database in accordance with the annex to decision 13/cmp.1 and this decision . 35. each party included in annex i shall report the following information : ( a ) “ assigned amount units issued ” , “ additions ” , the total quantity of aaus issued on the basis 
itment period from the ppsr account . j. table 5 ( b ) . summary information on annual transactions 36. in table 5 ( b ) , each party included in annex i shall provide summary information on annual transactions for the reported year and previously reported years for the commitment period : ( a ) fo
( c ) . summary information on annual transactions between previous period surplus reserve accounts 37. in table 5 ( c ) , each party included in annex i shall provide summary information on annual transactions between ppsr accounts for the reported year and for all previously reported years for th
port the sum to date of all transactions . l. table 5 ( d ) . summary information on expiry , cancellation and replacement 38. in table 5 ( d ) , annex i parties shall provide summary inf ormation relating to the replacement and cancellations of tcers , lcers and cers from ccs project activities fo
 lcers and cers from ccs project activities for each reported year for the commitment period . 39. for the reported year , each party included in annex i shall report : 10 this information will not be available until completion of the compliance assessment for the previous commitment period , follo
 . these quantities should match those reported under “ total ” in table 3 . 40. for all years prior to the reported year , the party included in annex i shall repeat the information under “ requirement to replace or cancel ” and under “ replacement ” and “ cancellation ” as reported in the previou
replace or cancel ” and under “ replacement ” and “ cancellation ” as reported in the previous sef . 41. under “ total ” , each party included in annex i shall report the sum of each column . at the end of the commitmen t period , the total quantities of tcers , lcers and cers from ccs project acti
 of kyoto protocol units under “ replacement ” and “ cancellation ” . m. table 5 ( e ) . summary information on retirement 42. in table 5 ( e ) , annex i parti es shall provide summary information on retirement to facilitate the compliance assessment at the end of the additional period for fulfilli
ate the compliance assessment at the end of the additional period for fulfilling commitments . 43. for the reported year , each party included in annex i shall report under “ retirement ” , the total quan tities of kyoto protocol units , by type , retired in that year for the purpose of demonstrati
d match those reported under “ retirement ” , “ total ” , in table 2 ( a ) . 44. for all years prior to the reported year , the party included in annex i shall repeat the information as reported in the previous sef . 45. under “ total ” , each party included in annex i shall report the sum of each 
 year , the party included in annex i shall repeat the information as reported in the previous sef . 45. under “ total ” , each party included in annex i shall report the sum of each column . n. table 6. memo item : cor rective transactions undertaken in the reported year 46. in tables 6 ( a ) to 6
port the sum of each column . n. table 6. memo item : cor rective transactions undertaken in the reported year 46. in tables 6 ( a ) to 6 ( c ) , annex i parties shall report any corrective transactions undertaken in the reported year relating to previously reported years , including transactions t
o decision 15/cmp.1 shall be replaced with the following paragraph : 18. for the purpose of the second commitment period , each party included in annex i shall report the calculation of its commitment period reserve in accordance with the annex to decision 18/cp.7 , decision 11/cmp.1 and paragraph 
 decision 15/cmp.1 shall be replaced with the following paragraph : 19. for the purpos e of the second commitment period , each party included in annex i shall provide access , upon the request of expert review teams , to information held in the national registry relating to the holding accounts re
commitment period , the following paragraph shall be inserted after paragraph 24 of the annex to decision 15/cmp.1 : 24 bis . parties included in annex i without quantified emission limitation and reduction commitments for the second commitment period shall continue to provide information relating 
hat , for the purpose of the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol and pending the entry into force of the doha amendment , contained in annex i to decision 1/cmp.8 , any references in this decision to annex a , annex b , article 3 , paragraphs 1 bis , 1 ter , 1 quater , 7 bis , 7 ter , 8 
d to as the 2006 ipcc guidelines ) as implemented thro ugh the “ guidelines for the preparation of national communications by parties included in annex i to the convention , part i : unfccc reporting guidelines on annual greenhouse gas inventories ” and the 2013 revised supplementary methods and go
ion 22/cmp.1 ; ( h ) all references to paragraphs 6 , 7 and 8 of the annex to decision 13/cmp.1 shall be read as references to paragraph 2 of and annex i to decision 2/cmp.8 , except t hose in paragraphs 2 and 5 of decision 22/cmp.1 ; ( i ) all references to activities under article 3 , paragraph 3
1 shall be read as references to “ as submitted through the report to facilitate the calculation of the assigned amount of each party included in annex i with a commitment inscribed in the third column of annex b to the doha amend ment in accordance with paragraph 2 of decision 2/cmp.8 ” ; ( s ) th
 ” ; 4. adopts the revisions to the “ guidelines for review under article 8 of the kyoto protocol ” for the second commitment period contained in annex i ; 5. also adopts the revisions to the “ good practice guidance and adjustments under article 5 , p aragraph 2 , of the kyoto protocol ” for the s
 for the purpose of the second commitment period , the adjustments referred to in paragraph 5 above are not applicable to the parties included in annex i without quantified emission limitation and reduction commitments for the second commitment period ; 7. requests the secretariat , in view of the 
entories , was not met ; 9. notes that the december 2014 software version of the crf reporte r was not functioning1 in such a manner as to enable annex i parties to prepare their inventory submissions ; 10. reiterates that in 2015 , annex i parties may submit their common reporting format tables af
porte r was not functioning1 in such a manner as to enable annex i parties to prepare their inventory submissions ; 10. reiterates that in 2015 , annex i parties may submit their common reporting format tables after 15 april , but no later than the corresponding delay in crf reporter availability ;
bmission of the report to facilitate the calculation of its assigned amount referred to in decision 2/cmp.8 , paragraph 2 ; 12. acknowledges that annex i parties may submit the report to facilitate the calculation of the assigned amount referred to in paragraph 11 above and make the annual inventor
sions/removals are reported accurately both in terms of crf tables and extensible mar kup language format . fccc/kp/cmp/2015/8/add.1 33 13. urges annex i parties to submit the report to facilitate the calculation of the assigned amount referred to in decision 2/cmp.8 , paragraph 2 , as soon as prac
 calculation of the assigned amount referred to in decision 2/cmp.8 , paragraph 2 , as soon as practically possible . fccc/kp/cmp/2015/8/add.1 34 annex i revisions to the guidelines for review under article 8 of the kyoto protocol i. general approach to review 1. for the purpose of the second commi
ootnote : “ article ” in these guidelines refers to an article of the kyoto protocol or an article in the doha amendment to the kyoto p rotocol ( annex i to decision 1/cmp.8 ) , unless otherwise specified . 2. for the purpose of the second commitment period , footnotes 5 and 6 of the annex to decis
econd commitment period , paragraphs 11 and 12 of the annex to decision 22/cmp.1 shall be replaced by the foll owing : 11. each party included in annex i with a commitment inscribed in the third column of the table contained in annex b to the doha amendment shall be subject to a review of the repor
2/cmp.8 : ( a ) the calculation of the assigned amount pursuant to article 3 , paragraphs 7 bis , 8 and 8 bis , in accordance with paragraph 2 of annex i to decision 3/cmp.11 , and the calculation of the commitment period reserve , for conformity with the modalities for the accounting of assigned a
 the procedures contained in part iii of these guide lines ; 1 ( b ) the information provided in accordance with paragraphs 1 ( f ) to 1 ( k ) in annex i to decision 2/cmp.8 related to the accounting of activities under article 3 , paragraphs 3 and 4 , of the kyoto protocol ; ( c ) with regard to p
8 related to the accounting of activities under article 3 , paragraphs 3 and 4 , of the kyoto protocol ; ( c ) with regard to parties included in annex i with a commitment inscribed in the third column of the table contained in annex b to the doha amendment which did not have a quantified emission 
raph 11 of decision 3/cmp.11 . 4. paragraph 14 of the annex to decision 22/cmp.1 shall be replaced by the following : 14. for parties included in annex i with a commitment inscribed in the third column of the table contained in annex b to the d oha amendment which did not have a quantified emission
he calculation of the assigned amount for the second commitment period shall be conducted as an i n-country visit . for other parties included in annex i the review shall be conducted either as a centralized review or as an in -country visit , giving priority to in -country visits for those parties
ng paragraph shall be inserted after paragraph 15 ( b ) ( iv ) of the annex to decision 22/cmp.1 : 15 ( b ) ( iv ) bis . when a party included in annex i without a quantified emission limitation and reduction commitment for the second commitment period reports information on its national registry i
t indicates any issues related to accounting , transactions , and reporting of units under the kyoto protocol . in such cases parties included in annex i shall provide the expert review team with effective access to their nati onal registry during the review . the relevant parts of paragraphs 9 and
eviews , the same provisions as agreed in the “ unfccc guidelines for the technical review of greenhouse gas inventories from parties included in annex i to the convention ” contained in the annex to decision 13/cp.20 shall apply . 17. for the purpose of the second commitment period , paragraph 59 
itial assessment included in part iii of the “ unfccc guidelines for the technical review of green house gas inventories from parties included in annex i to the convention ” contained in the annex to decision 13/cp.20 . the initial check shall in addition cover whether : ( a ) a party included in a
i to the convention ” contained in the annex to decision 13/cp.20 . the initial check shall in addition cover whether : ( a ) a party included in annex i to the convention has failed to include an estimate fo r a source category ( as defined in chapter 4 of volume 1 of the 2006 ipcc guidelines ) th
otocol as contained in the doha amendment , in the most recent of the party ’ s reviewed inventories in which the source was estimated ; ( b ) an annex i party has failed to provide supplementary information in accordance with annex ii to decision 2/cmp.8 and decision 6/cmp.9 . 18. for the purpose 
iew , the same provisions as included i n the “ unfccc guidelines for the technical review of greenhouse gas inventories from parties included in annex i to the convention ” , contained in the annex to decision 13/cp.20 , shall apply . 19. for the purpose of the second commitment period , paragraph
the same provisions as those included in the “ unfccc guidelines for the technical review of greenhouse gas inventories from parties include d in annex i to the convention ” included in the annex to decision 13/cp.20 shall apply . in addition , the inventory review shall : ( a ) examine the applica
 supplement as adopted by the cop/mop and the “ unfccc guidelines for the technical review of greenhouse gas inventories from parties included in annex i to the convention ” contained in the ann ex to fccc/kp/cmp/2015/8/add.1 38 decision 13/cp.20 and relevant decisions of the conference of the part
. 2. for the purpose of the second commitment period , paragraph 11 of decision 20/cmp.1 shall be replaced by the following : 11. decides that an annex i party may submit a revised estimate for a part of its inventory of a year of the commitm ent period to which an adjustment was previously applied
evised estimate by the expert review team , the revised estimate shall replace the adjusted estimate . in the event of a disagreement between the annex i party and the expert review team regarding the revised estimate , the issue will be forwarded to the compliance committee , which will resolve th
the compliance committee , which will resolve the disagreement in accordance with the procedures and mechanisms on compliance . the option for an annex i party to submit a revised estimate for a part of its inventory to which an adjustment was previously app lied should not prevent annex i parties 
n for an annex i party to submit a revised estimate for a part of its inventory to which an adjustment was previously app lied should not prevent annex i parties from making their best efforts to correct the problem at the time it was initially identified and in accordance with the time frame set f
on d commitment period , the following paragraph shall be inserted after paragraph 11 of decision 20/cmp.1 : 12. decides that parties included in annex i without quantified emission limitation and reduction commitments for the second commitment period may subm it a revised estimate for a part of th
 of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol , including the consideration of requirements for parties included in annex i without a quantified emission limitation and reduction commitment for the second commitment period under the kyoto pro tocol , and to implement t
e the current practice of including , in its annual report on the technical review of greenhouse gas inve ntories reported by parties included in annex i that are also parties to the kyoto protocol to the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice , information on the updated training 
the selection of trainees and instructors , in order for parties to assess the effectiveness of the programme ; 4. encourages parties included in annex i to the convention that are also parties to the kyoto protocol that are in a position to do so to provide financial support for the implementation
 ghg inventory review experts who have successfully completed the basic course for the technical review of ghg inventories of parties included in annex i to the convention ( annex i parties ) . type of course : e-learning , without instructor . examination requirements and format : new ghg inventor
s who have successfully completed the basic course for the technical review of ghg inventories of parties included in annex i to the convention ( annex i parties ) . type of course : e-learning , without instructor . examination requirements and format : new ghg inventory review experts and new lea
y review experts and ghg inventory review experts who have successfully completed the basic course for the technical review of ghg inventories of annex i parties . type of course : e-learning , facilitated by an instructor . examination requirements and format : new ghg inventory review experts and
13 10/cmp.11 technical review in 2016 of greenhouse gas inventories and initial reports for the second commitment period from parties included in annex i to the convention that are also parties to the kyoto protocol ................................ ................................ . 14 11/cmp.11 ad
on 10/cmp.11 technical review in 2016 of greenhouse gas inventories and initial reports for the second commitment period from parties included in annex i to the convention that are also parties to the kyoto protocol the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto pr
 meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol has adequate and reliable information on annual greenhouse gas inventories from parties included in annex i to the convention that are also parties to the kyoto protocol ( parties included in annex i ) , noting that owing to a delay in the availability 
l greenhouse gas inventories from parties included in annex i to the convention that are also parties to the kyoto protocol ( parties included in annex i ) , noting that owing to a delay in the availability of a functioning crf reporter and pending the finalization of the full set of accounting , r
nalization of the full set of accounting , reporting and review modalities under articles 5 , 7 and 8 of the kyoto protocol , parties included in annex i were unable to submit in 2015 some of the information required under article 7 , paragraph 1 , of the kyoto protocol , or their reports to facili
onal work , 1. requests the secretariat to organize the review of the 2015 and 2016 greenhouse gas inventory submissions from parties included in annex i to the convention that are also parties to the kyoto protocol ( parties included in annex i ) , including the review of the supplementary informa
se gas inventory submissions from parties included in annex i to the convention that are also parties to the kyoto protocol ( parties included in annex i ) , including the review of the supplementary information submit ted under article 7 , paragraph 1 , of the kyoto protocol , in conjunction with 
tanding issues related to transparency and accuracy , noting that the crf reporter is not yet fully fu nctioning ; 4. invites parties included in annex i that have not yet submitted their 2015 greenhouse gas inventories and supplementary information required under article 7 , paragraph 1 , of the k
 ensure the widest possible participation in the negotiations in 2016 , and to the trust fund for supplementary activities ; 1 decision 15/cp.1 , annex i , as revised by decision 23/cp.20 . 2 fccc/sbi/2015/13 , fccc/sbi/2015/inf.10 and fccc/sbi/2015/inf.17 . 3 fccc/sbi/2015/13 . 4 fccc/sbi/2015/inf
r the biennium 2016 –2017 as it applies to the kyoto protocol ; 2 2. adopts the indicativ e scale of contributions for 2016 and 2017 contained in annex i , covering 28.8 per cent of the indicative contributions specified in table 1 of decision 22/cp.21 ; 3. invites all parties to the kyoto protocol
/cp.20 , three operational ap proaches may be used for implementing the technical review of the greenhouse gas inventories of parties included in annex i to the convention , namely desk reviews , centralized reviews and in -country reviews , assuming available resources , and recognizes tha t the s
p.20 in 2016 –2017 , taking into account the programme budget and supplementary resources provided for under this decision . 3 decision 15/cp.1 , annex i , as revised by decision 23/cp.20 . 4 fccc/sbi/2015/3/add.1 . 5 fccc/sbi/2015/3/add.3 . fccc/kp/cmp/2015/8/add.2 19 annex i [ english only ] indi
 3 decision 15/cp.1 , annex i , as revised by decision 23/cp.20 . 4 fccc/sbi/2015/3/add.1 . 5 fccc/sbi/2015/3/add.3 . fccc/kp/cmp/2015/8/add.2 19 annex i [ english only ] indicative scale of contributions from parties to the kyoto protocol for the biennium 2016 –2017 party united nations scale of a
d countries expert group , the adaptation committee and the consultative group of experts on national communications from parties not included in annex i to the convention ; ( i ) the technical paper and summary for p olicymakers arising from the technical examination process on adaptation in 2016 
ptation fund boa rd on the added value of the adaptation fund for the operationalization of the paris agreement , as contained in the addendum to annex i to the report of the adaptation fund board ; 2 available at < https : //www.adaptation -fund.org/document/independent -evaluation -of-the-adaptat
 9/cmp.1 , annex , paragraphs 30 –45 . 4 fccc/kp/cmp/2016/5 . 5 as requested through decision 7/cmp.11 , paragraphs 6 –8 . 6 fccc/kp/cmp/2016/5 , annex i . 7 as reflected in joint implementation supervisory committee document ji -jisc39 -aa-a02 , paragraphs 16 –20 , available at < http : //ji.unfcc
 from parties to the trust fund for participation in the unfccc process and to the trust fund for supplementary activities ; 1 decision 15/cp.1 , annex i . 2 draft decision proposed for adoption under agenda item 17 ( a –c ) of the subsidiary body for implementation . 3 fccc/sbi/2016/13 , fccc/sbi/
ents of assistance have started to transfer their own ex pertise , knowledge and lessons learned on capacity -building to parties not included in annex i to the convention ; ( b ) parties included in annex i to the convention and the global environment facility , within its mandate , have provided 
ex pertise , knowledge and lessons learned on capacity -building to parties not included in annex i to the convention ; ( b ) parties included in annex i to the convention and the global environment facility , within its mandate , have provided adequate resources and as sistance for the implementat
tion to the core budget of eur 766,938 and its special contribution of eur 1,789,522 as host government of the secretariat ; 1 decision 15/cp.1 , annex i . 2 fccc/sbi/2017 /13 , fccc/sbi/2017/inf.8 , fccc/sbi/2017 /inf.14 and fccc/ sbi/2017 /inf.15 and add.1 . 3 fccc/sbi/2017/13 . 4 fccc/sbi/2017/i
importance of the proper functioning of the international transaction log for the parties listed in annex b to the kyoto protocol as contained in annex i to decision 1/cmp.8 ( hereinafter in this decision referred to as parties ) , 1. approves the budget for the international transaction log for th
s to recover outstanding contrib utions and encourages parties to pay those outstanding contributions as soon as possible ; 1 decisi on 15/cp.1 , annex i . 2 fccc/sbi/2018/16 and add.1 and 2 , fccc/sbi/2018/inf.11 and add.1 , fccc/sbi/2018/inf.12 , fccc/sbi/2018/inf.16 , fccc/sbi/2018/inf.17 , fccc
ariat services to the adaptati on fund board.4 8th plenary meeting 15 december 2019 2 decisions 1/cmp.13 , para . 7 , and 2/cmp.14 , para . 7 . 3 annex i to the addendum to the 2019 report of the adaptation fund board ( fccc/kp/cmp/2019/4/add.1 –fccc/pa/cma/20 19/2/add.1 , annex ) . 4 annex iii to 
m on the impact of the implementation of response measures ; 2. adopt the rules of procedure of the katowice committee on impacts as contained in annex i ; 3. adopt the workplan of the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures and its katowice committee on impacts as contained 
ndertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 1 available at https : //unfccc.int/documents/2 02723 . fccc/kp/cmp/2019/8/add.1 9 annex i rules of procedure of the katowice committee of experts on the impacts of the implementation of response measures i. scope 1. these rules of proc
importance of the proper functioning of the international transaction log for the parties listed in annex b to the kyoto protocol as contained in annex i to decision 1/cmp.8 , 1. approves the budget for the international transaction log for the bienniu m 2020 –2021 , amounting to eur 4,610,775 , fo
, covering 15 per cent of the contrib utions specified in table 1 of decision 21/cp . 23 . 1 fccc/sbi /2019/4 and add.1 –2 . 2 decision 15/cp.1 , annex i . 3 fccc/ sbi/2019/inf.5 . fccc/kp/cmp/2019/8/add.1 23 annex indicative scale of contributions from parties to the kyoto protocol for 2019 –2021 
tion to the core budget of eur 766,938 and its special contribution of eur 1,789,522 as host government of the secretariat ; 1 decision 15/cp.1 , annex i . 2 fccc/sbi/2019/14 and add.1 –2 , fccc/sbi/201 9/inf . 9 and add.1 , fccc/sbi/201 9/inf . 12 and fccc/sbi/201 9/inf . 16 . 3 fccc/sbi/2019/14 a
gical approaches referred to in paragraph 4 above , in particular with respect to the default baseline assumptions applied ; 1 decision 1/cmp.8 , annex i . 2 fccc/kp/cmp/2020/1 and corr.1 and fccc/kp/cmp/2021/4 . fccc/kp/cmp/2021/ 8/add.1 4 iii . functioning of the clean development mechanism beyon
ents of assistance have started to transfer their own expertise , knowledge and lessons learned on capacity - building to parties not included in annex i to the convention ; ( b ) parties included in annex i to the convention and the global environment facility , within its mandate , have provided 
expertise , knowledge and lessons learned on capacity - building to parties not included in annex i to the convention ; ( b ) parties included in annex i to the convention and the global environment facility , within its mandate , have provided adequate resources and assistance for the implementati
 the work of the forum and its katowice committee on impacts ; 5. adopt the recommendations pertaining to activity 1 of the workplan contained in annex i , forwarded by the forum in the 2020 –2021 annual report of the katowice committee on impacts , and invite parties to implement them , as ap plic
 to minimize the adverse impacts and maximize the positive impacts of the implementation of response measures on the recommendations contained in annex i ; 9. recall the rules of procedure of the katowice c ommittee on impacts4 and encourage groups to nominate members to the katowice committee on i
ces . 5 https : //www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/pages/home.aspx . 6 as per decision 19/cma.1 , para . 24. fccc/kp/cmp/2021/ 8/add.1 20 annex i recommendations forwarded by the forum pertaining to activity 1 of the workplan : exploring approaches to inform the development and implementati
portance of the proper functioning of the international transaction log for the parties listed in annex b to the kyoto protocol , as contained in annex i to decision 1/cmp.8 , 1. approves the budget for the international transaction log for the biennium 2022 –2023 , amounting to eur 3,851,948 for t
e secretariat ; 9. requests the executive secretary to take further measures to reduce parties ’ outstanding contributions ; 1 decision 15/cp.1 , annex i . 2 fccc/s bi/2020/3 and add.1 –2 , fccc/sbi/2020/inf.2 , fccc/sbi/2020/inf.3 , fccc/sbi/2020/inf.9 and add.1 , fccc/sbi/2021/5 and add.1 , fccc/
 , 3/cmp.11 , 4/cmp.11 , 10/cmp.11 , 8/cmp.16 and 22/cp.26 , further r ecalling decision 27/cmp.1 , annex , chapter xiii , and decision 1/cmp.8 , annex i , chapter c , clarifying that , with regard to decision 27/cmp.1 , annex , chapter xiii , for the purposes of the second commitment period the re
 paragraphs , for the accounting of the compliance assessment , in order to facilitate the assessment of the compliance of each party included in annex i with its commitments under article 3 , paragraph 1 bis , of the kyoto protocol , as amended , 1. decides that the expert review process under art
 2023 and every four weeks thereafter until the month of completion of the true -up period , the following information for each party included in annex i with a c ommitment inscribed in the third column of annex b in the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol for the second commitment period , indica
ocess for submission of requests to the secretariat to transition the requests and other submissions that have been accorded 1 decision 1/cmp.8 , annex i . 2 fccc/kp/cmp/202 2/7 . 3 see document fccc/kp/cmp/20 22/7 , chap . iv.e . fccc/kp/cmp/2022/9/add.1 5 provisional status to the mechanism estab
prepared by the secretariat on ef forts to further improve the efficiency and transparency of the unfccc budget process ; 5 1 decision 15/c p.1 , annex i . 2 fccc/sbi/2022/3 and add.1 , fccc/sbi/2022/9 , fccc/sbi/2022/inf.1 , fccc/sbi/2022/inf.2 , fccc/sbi/2022/inf.3 , fccc/sbi/2022/inf.7 and fccc/
ementary activities received from parties , including those contributions that allow for greater flexibility in allocation ; 1 decision 15/cp.1 , annex i . 2 fccc/sbi/2022/inf.10 and add.1 , fccc/sbi/2022/inf.11 and fccc/sbi/2022/inf.16 . 3 fccc/sbi/2022/inf.11 . 4 fccc/sbi/2022/inf.16 . fccc/kp/cm
........................ ............................ 13 9/cp.2 1 methodologies for the reporting of financial information by parties included in annex i to the convention ................................ ................................ ..................... 15 10/cp.2 1 the 2013 –2015 review ....
s at 16 september 2015. fccc/cp/2015/10/add.2 15 decision 9/cp.21 methodologies for the reporting of financial information by parties included in annex i to the convention the conference of the parties , recalling articles 4 , 5 , 7 , 10 and 12 of the convention , also recalling decisions 9/cp.2 , 
3. also welco mes the joint in -session technical workshop on the methodologies for the reporting of financial information by parties included in annex i to the convention organized under the auspices of the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice , the su bsidiary body for implemen
anding committee on finance to take into account the work on the methodologies for the reporting of financia l information by parties included in annex i to the convention in the context of its workplan on the measurement , reporting and verification of support ; 15. invites the subsidiary body for
ments referred to i n paragraph 6 above in its revision of the “ guidelines for the preparation of national communications by parties included in annex i to the convention , part ii : unfccc reporting guidelines on national communications ” , to be completed at the twenty -second s ession of the co
least developed countries expert group .............. 16 20/cp.21 technical review in 2016 of greenhouse gas inventories from parties included in annex i to the convention ................................ ................................ ......................... 19 21/cp.21 administrative , financ
ith paragraphs 1 and 2 above , when developing its two -year rolling work programme to take into account the compilation of elements contained in annex i to document fcc c/sbi/2015/8 and the compilation of gaps and needs in the least developed countries , considered at this session ; 4 5. also requ
w.unfccc.int/5900 > . fccc/cp/2015/10/add.3 19 decision 2 0/cp.21 technical review in 2016 of greenhouse gas inventories from parties included in annex i to the convention the conference of the parties , recalling decisions 12/cp.9 , 24/cp.19 and 13/cp.20 , emphasizing the importance of ensuring th
f ensuring that the conference of the parties has adequate and reliable information on annual greenhouse gas inventories from parties included in annex i to the convention ( annex i parties ) , recognizing that owing to a delay in the availability of a functioning crf reporter , not all an nex i pa
ce of the parties has adequate and reliable information on annual greenhouse gas inventories from parties included in annex i to the convention ( annex i parties ) , recognizing that owing to a delay in the availability of a functioning crf reporter , not all an nex i parties were able to submit th
 inventories in time to start the review process of those inventories in 2015 , 1. requests the secretariat to organize , for parties included in annex i to the convention ( annex i parties ) that did not undergo a review of their annual greenhouse gas inventory in 2015 , the review of their 2015 g
t the review process of those inventories in 2015 , 1. requests the secretariat to organize , for parties included in annex i to the convention ( annex i parties ) that did not undergo a review of their annual greenhouse gas inventory in 2015 , the review of their 2015 greenhouse gas inventory subm
h years ’ inventories ; 3. also decides that the exceptional measures taken under paragraph 1 above to review the greenhouse gas invento ries for annex i parties for the years 2015 and 2016 shall not be precedent -setting for future work ; 4. requests the secretariat to make every effort to facilit
tion to the core budget of eur 766,938 and its special contribution as host government of the secretariat of eur 1,789,522 ; 1 decision 15/cp.1 , annex i , as revised by decision 23/cp.20 . 2 fccc/sbi/2015/13 , fccc /sbi/2015/inf.10 and fccc/sbi/2015/inf.17 . 3 fccc/sbi/2015/13 . 4 fccc/sbi/2015/in
priation lines , provided that a further limitation of up to minus 25 per cent of each such appropriation line shall apply ; 1 decision 15/cp.1 , annex i , as revised by decision 23/cp.20 . 2 fccc/sbi/2015/3 and add.1 –3 . 3 recognizes that , in accordance with decision 13/cp.20 , three operational
3/cp.20 , three operational approaches may be used for implementing the technical review of the greenhouse gas inventories of parties included in annex i to the convention , namely desk reviews , centralized reviews and in -country reviews , assuming availabl e resources , and recognizes that the s
ange policy and action 398 800 4 supporting the work of the consultative group of experts on national communications from parties not included in annex i to the convention on implementing the measurement , reporting and verification framework for developing country parties 1 843 304 8 supporting th
implementation of response measures 1 086 608 12 supporting the upgraded software ( crf reporter ) for the reporting of ghg emissions/removals by annex i parties 1 523 466 14 maintenance and enhancement of the unfccc data warehouse and related information technology tools and data-processing system
t reflect pledges to the green c limate fund amounting to usd 10.2 billion by the end of 2014. b from annex ii parties to parties not included in annex i to the convention ( non -annex i parties ) . values are derived by excluding climate finance to parties included in annex i to the convent ion fr
rties not included in annex i to the convention ( non -annex i parties ) . values are derived by excluding climate finance to parties included in annex i to the convent ion from the total climate finance provided by mdbs from their own resources to arrive at climate finance provided to non -annex i
ports of the least developed countries expert group and the consultative group of experts on national communications from parties not included in annex i to the convention . c. criteria 3. the effectiveness of the financial mechanism will be assessed taking into account the following : ( a ) the tr
............................ ...... 14 20/cp.22 work of the consultative group of experts on national communications from parties not included in annex i to the convention ................................ .................... 16 21/cp.22 gender an d climate change ................................ .
rk , to the operating entities of the financial mechanism for implementation , in accordance with their respective policies and processes ; 1 see annex i to document fccc/sb/2016/1 and document fccc/cp/2016/7/rev.1 and add.1 . 2 green climate fund board decision b.14/02 . available at < http : //ww
 article 6 of the convention ; 11. requests the global environment facility to continue to provide financial resources to parties not included in annex i to the conv ention , in particular african countries , the least developed countries and small island developing states , in order to support act
2016 fccc/cp/2016/10/add.2 16 decision 20/cp.22 work of the consultative group of experts on national communications from parties not included in annex i to the convention the conference of the parties , recalling the relevant provisions of the convention , in particular article 4 , paragraphs 1 , 
p.17 and 19/cp.19 , acknowledging the contributions of the consultative gr oup of experts on national communications from parties not included in annex i to the convention to enhancing capacity -building and participation in measurement , reporting and verification arrangements for developing count
, 1. decides that the mandate and terms of reference of the consultative group of experts on national communications from parties not included in annex i to the convention as contained in decision 19/cp.19 and the annex thereto shall remain unchanged ; 2. requests the subsidiary body for implementa
cess , in order to ensure the widest poss ible participation in the negotiations in 2017 , and to the trust fund for supplementary activities ; 1 annex i to decision 15/cp.1 . 2 fccc/sbi/2016/13 , fccc/sbi/2016 /inf.12 and add.1 , fccc/sbi/2016/inf.14 , fccc/sbi/2016/inf.15 and fccc/sbi/2016/inf.19
....... 40 11/cp.24 review of the terms of reference of the consultative group of experts on national communications from parties not included in annex i to the convention ................................ ................................ 46 united nations fccc /cp/2018/10/add.1 distr . : general 19
and 2016 from provider to beneficiary countries , available information on domestic climate finance and cooperation among parties not included in annex i to the convention ( non - annex i parties ) , and the other climate -related flows that constitute global total climate finance flows . it also i
ary countries , available information on domestic climate finance and cooperation among parties not included in annex i to the convention ( non - annex i parties ) , and the other climate -related flows that constitute global total climate finance flows . it also includes information on trends sinc
es limi ts comparability in climate finance reporting . 18. the current “ unfccc biennial update reporting guidelines for parties not included in annex i to the convention ” 6 for reporting by non -annex i parties on financial , technical and capacity -building needs and support received do not req
n . 20. there are significant data gaps on climate finance flows in the conte xt of cooperation among non -annex i parties . 5 decision 2/cp.17 , annex i . 6 decision 2/cp.17 , annex iii . fccc/cp/2018/10/add.1 19 2. information relevant to article 2 , paragraph 1 ( c ) , of the paris agreement : m
 was , however , a significant underestimation given the underlying reporting approaches . ( e ) recipients 31. a total of 34 parties included in annex i to the convention provided information on recipients in the br3s , while 16 out of 40 burs submitted as first or second burs as at october 2018 i
he organisation for economic co -operation and development , recipients eligible for official development assistance a nd parties not included in annex i 34. information on climate finance flows among non -annex i parties is not systematically tracked , relying on voluntary reporting by countries t
018/6 and add.1 . 3 global environment facility council decision gef/c.54/10/rev.01 . 4 global environment facility document gef/c.54/10/rev.01 , annex i , paragraph 5 . 5 global environment facility document gef/c.50/06 , paragraph 26. fccc/cp/2018/10/add.1 33 strategic programme on technology tra
 decision 11 /cp.24 review of the terms of reference of the consultative group of experts on national communications from parties not included in annex i to the convention the conference of the parties , recalling the relevant provisions of the convention , in particular article 4 , paragraphs 1 , 
cp.19 and 20/cp.22 , acknowledging the contributions of the consultative group of experts on national communications from parties not included in annex i to the convention to enhancing capacity -building and participation in measurement , reporting and verification arrangements for developing count
a continuous process , 1. decides to extend the term of the consultative group of experts on national communications from parties not included in annex i to the convention for eight years , from 1 january 2019 to 31 december 2026 , and to rename it the consultative group of experts ; 2. also de cid
lfilling its mandate , shall function in accordance with decision 19/cp.19 and its annex ; 3. invites a representative of parties not included in annex i to the convention that are not represented by the consti tuencies referred to in decision 3/cp.8 , annex , paragraph s 3–8 , in the membership of
res to recover outstanding contributions and encourages parties to pay those outstanding contributions as soon as possible ; 1 decision 15/cp.1 , annex i . 2 fccc/sbi/2018/16 and add.1 and 2 , fccc/sbi/2018/inf.11 and add.1 , fccc/sbi/2018/inf.12 , fccc/sbi/2018/inf.16 , fccc/sbi/2018/inf.17 , fccc
............... ....................... 26 6/cp.25 revision of the unfccc reporting guidelines on national communications for parties included in annex i to the convention ................................ ................................ ........................ 28 united nations fccc /cp/2019/13/a
 on the impact of the implementation of response measures ; 2. adopt the rules of procedure o f the katowice committee on impacts as contained in annex i ; 3. adopt the workplan of the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures and its katowice committee on impacts as contained 
e undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 1 available at https : //unfccc.int/documents/202723 . fccc/cp/2019/13/add.1 17 annex i rules of procedure of the katowice committee of experts on the impacts of the implementation of response measures i. scope 1. these rules of proc
ber 2019 fccc/cp/2019/13/add.1 28 decision 6/cp.25 revision of the unfccc reporting guidelines on national communications for parties included in annex i to the convention the conference of the parties , recalling the relevant provisions of the convention , in particular articles 4 , 5 , 6 and 12 ,
 , and decisions 9/cp.2 , 11/cp.4 , 4/cp.5 , 1/cp.1 6 , 2/cp.17 , 19/cp.18 , 24/cp.19 and 9/cp.21 , related to reporting from parties included in annex i to the convention , as well as decision 1/cp.24 , paragraphs 39 –43 , related to the transparency framework for action and support referred to in
equest to the subsidiary body for implementation to revise the “ guidelines for the preparation of national communications by parties included in annex i to the convention , part ii : unfccc reporting guidelines on national communications ” 1 based on the experience s gained in preparing the first 
biennial reports and other information,2 1. adopts the revised “ guidelines for the preparation of national communications by parties included in annex i to the convention , part ii : unfccc reporting guidelines on national communications ” contained in the annex ; 2. decides that parties included 
 the convention , part ii : unfccc reporting guidelines on national communications ” contained in the annex ; 2. decides that parties included in annex i to the convention shall use the guidelines referred to in paragraph 1 above in preparing their national co mmunications , beginning with the eigh
 also decides to change the due date for submission of the eighth national communication s and the fifth biennial report s by parties included in annex i to the convention from 1 january 20223 to as early as the annual greenhouse gas inventory submission for inventory year 2020 is provided to the u
ecision 2/cp.17 , para s. 13–14 . fccc/cp/2019/13/add.1 29 annex guidelines for the preparation of national communications by parties included in annex i to the convention , part ii : unfccc reporting guidelines on national communications i. objectives 1. the objectives of these guidelines are to :
ational communications i. objectives 1. the objectives of these guidelines are to : ( a ) assist parties included in an nex i to the convention ( annex i parties ) in meeting their commitments under articles 4 and 12 of the convention ; ( b ) promote the provision of consistent , transparent , comp
mation in order to enable a thorough review and asses sment of the implementation of the convention by parties , and to monitor the progress that annex i parties are making towards meeting their goals under the convention ; ( c ) assist the conference of the parties ( cop ) in carrying out its resp
rom the national ghg inventory prepared in accordance with the “ guidelines for the preparation of national communications by parties included in annex i to the convention , part i : unfccc reporting guidelines on annual greenhouse gas inventories ” ( hereinafter referred to as the unfccc annex i i
n annex i to the convention , part i : unfccc reporting guidelines on annual greenhouse gas inventories ” ( hereinafter referred to as the unfccc annex i inventory reporting guidelines ) ( annex i to decision 24/cp.19 and any relevant decisions adopted subsequently by the cop ) shall be provided fo
cc reporting guidelines on annual greenhouse gas inventories ” ( hereinafter referred to as the unfccc annex i inventory reporting guidelines ) ( annex i to decision 24/cp.19 and any relevant decisions adopted subsequently by the cop ) shall be provided for the period from 1990 ( or another base ye
ormation expressed in carbon dioxide ( co 2 ) equivalent in emission trend tables provided in the common reporting format contained in the unfccc annex i inventory reporting gui delines . parties may elect to replicate the information reported in the biennial report submitted with the national comm
national inventory arrangements in accordance with the reporting requirements related to national inventory arrangements contained in the unfcc c annex i inventory reporting guidelines and on any changes to fccc/cp/2019/13/add.1 31 those national inventory arrangements since their previous national
ex ii parties ) shall provide information on the provision of financial , technological and capacity -building support to parties not included in annex i to the convention ( non -annex i parties ) , including information to show how this support is new and additional . in reporting such information
it has provided capacity -building support that responds to existing and emerging capacity -building needs ide ntified by parties not included in annex i to the convention in the areas of mitigation , adaptation and technology development and transfer . c additional information may be provided on ,
research and systematic observation 60. pursuant to articles 4 , paragraph 1 ( g ) and ( h ) , 5 and 12 , paragraph 1 ( b ) , of the convention , annex i parties shall communicate information on their actions relating to research and systematic observation . 61. the national co mmunication shall ad
cation , training and public awareness 68. in accordance with articles 4 , paragraph 1 ( i ) , 6 and 12 , paragraph 1 ( b ) , of the convention , annex i parties shall communicate information on their actions relating to education , training and public awareness . in this section , parties should r
t group on gaps and needs related to the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans , including the gaps and needs contained in annex i to document fccc/sbi/2019/16,2 and on ways to assist with the implementation of national adaptation plans , as requested by the subsidiary body f
y document gef/c.53/04 . 5 see global environment facility document gef/c.54/06 . 6 see global environment facility document gef/c.56/03/rev.01 , annex i . 7 see global environment facility docum ent gef/me/c.56/02/rev.01 , section 2 . 8 contributions were made by belgium , canada , denmark , germa
e conference of the parties and the united nations environment programme regarding the hosting of the climate technology centre , as contained in annex i to decision 14/cp.18 , and invites the united nations env ironment programme , as the host of the climate technology centre , to develop and impl
er cent of total estimated expenditure for those appropriation lines , provided that a further limitation of up to –25 per 1 decision 15/cp . 1 , annex i , as amended by decision 17/cp.4 , para . 16 . 2 see document fccc/sbi/2019 /4 , chap . iii.d . 3 fccc/sbi/2019 /4 and add.1 –2 . fccc/cp/2019/13
es to recover outstanding contributions and encourages parties to pay those outstanding contributions as s oon as possible ; 1 decision 15/cp.1 , annex i . 2 fccc/sbi/2019/14 and add.1 –2 , fccc/sbi/20 19/inf . 9 and add.1 , fccc/sbi/201 9/inf . 12 and fccc/sbi/201 9/inf . 16 . 3 fccc/sbi/2019/14 a
 international consultation and analysis ... 22 6/cp.27 revision of the unfccc reporting guidelines on annual inventories for parties included in annex i to the convention ............................................................................ 23 7/cp.27 common metrics used to calculate the ca
the united nations . available at https : //www.fao.org/documents/card/en/c/cc0639en . 2 pursuant to decision 4/cp.23 , para . 1 . 3 contained in annex i to documents fccc/sbi/2018/9 and fccc/sbsta/2018/4 . 4 fccc/sbi/2019/9 , para . 44 , fccc/sbsta/2019/2 , para . 42 , fccc/sbi/2019/20 , para s. 2
 annex ii to decision 2/cp.17 , shall continue to be used for conducting the technical review and multilateral assessment for parties included in annex i to the convention , taking into account decision 1/cp.24 , paragraphs 39 , 41 and 44 ; 2. requests the subsidiary body for implementation to cons
 decision 2/cp.17 , shall continue to be used for conducting the technical analysis and facilitative sharing of views for parties not included in annex i to the convention , taking into account decision 1/cp.24 , paragraphs 39 , 41 and 44 ; 2. requests the subsidiary body for implementation to cons
ovember 202 2 fccc/cp/2022/10/add.1 23 decision 6/cp.27 revision of the unfccc reporting guidelines on annual inventories for parties included in annex i to the convention the conference of the parties , recalling article 4 , paragraph 1 , article 10 , paragraph 2 , and article 12 , paragraph 1 , o
se gas inventories under the convention in accordance with the “ guidelines for the preparation of national communications by parties included in annex i to the convention , part i : unfccc reporting guidelines on annual greenhouse gas inventories ” for the 2024 submission onward , parties included
the convention , part i : unfccc reporting guidelines on annual greenhouse gas inventories ” for the 2024 submission onward , parties included in annex i to the convention that are not parties to the paris agreement that are using an approach to reporting emissions and removals from harvested wood 
pproach , either in their national inventory report , or as per paragraph 44 of decision 1/cp.24 and using the common reporting tables set out in annex i to decision 5/cma.3 ; 2. also decides that the global warming potential values , excluding the value for fossil methane used by parties included 
 decision 5/cma.3 ; 2. also decides that the global warming potential values , excluding the value for fossil methane used by parties included in annex i to the convention to calculate the carbon dioxide equivalence of anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions by sources and removals by sinks in their
 panel on climate change 2 and that these values shall be applied by no later than 31 december 2024 ; 3. further decides that parties included in annex i to the convention may in addition also use other metric s ( e.g . global temperature potential ) to report supplemental information on aggregate 
raph 8 , is not expected to be available for use until 30 june 2024 ; 6. decides to change the deadline for the submission by parties included in annex i to the convention that are parties to the paris agreement of their annual greenhouse gas inventories due in 2024 to 31 december 2024 ; 1 as set o
s expert group on gaps and needs related to the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans , including the needs referred to in annex i i to document fccc/sbi/2019/ 5 , 8 and their work on ways to assist with the implementation of national adaptation plans , as requested by the su
 -group . 3 see documents fccc/sb/2019/3 , paras . 54 –56 , an d fccc/sb/2020/2 , para . 67 . 4 see documents fccc/sbi/2019/16 , chap . iii.g and annex i ; fccc/sbi/2020/6 , chap . iv.f and annex ii ; fccc/sbi/2020/14 , chap . iii.h and annex ii ; fccc/sbi/2021/6 , chap . iv.f ; and fccc/sbi/2021/1
lcomes the pledges that have already been made to the santiago network ; “ 8 . adopts the terms of reference of the santiago network contained in annex i ; “ 9 . decides to establish the advisory board of the santiago network as part of the warsaw international mechanism for loss and damage associa
.3 , para s. 68 and 70. fccc/cp/2022/10/add.1 38 to the appropriate governing body or bodies3 and have the roles and responsibilities outlined in annex i ; “ 10 . also decides that the members of the advisory board will be elected at the next session of the governing body or bodies ( november –dece
nd damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change , as well as the roles and responsibilities of the advisory board refe rred to in annex i , taking into account the need for gender balance , in accordance with decisions 36/cp.7 , 23/cp.18 , and 3/cp.25 , and the composition of the ad
e need for gender balance , in accordance with decisions 36/cp.7 , 23/cp.18 , and 3/cp.25 , and the composition of the advisory board outlined in annex i ; “ 11 . further decides that the members elected to the advisory board shall serve a term of two years and shall be eligible to serve a maximum 
ocedures for the santiago network under the guidance of and by approval of the advisory board on the basis of the terms of reference contained in annex i , and taking into account decision 19/cma.3 , paragraph 9 , endorsed in decision 17/cp.26 , and decision 1/cma.3 , paragraph 67 , including : ( a
did not produce an outcome ; this is without prejudice to further consideration of this matter . 6 as footnote 6 above . fccc/cp/2022/10/add.1 41 annex i * terms of reference of the santiago network for averting , minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of clim
 and experts , across communities of practices , and for them to deliver effective and efficient technical assistance to developing countries ; * annex i to decision 12/cma.4 , endorsed by the conference of the parties in this decision . 1 decision 2/cma . 2 , para . 43 . 2 decision 19/cma.3 , para
ithout prejudice to the meaning of those terms in the context of the convention and the paris agreement , including but not limited to flows from annex i parties and annex ii parties to non-annex i parties and mdbs ; flows from oecd members to non -members ; flows from oecd development assistance c
verse sourc es with varying degrees of transparency ; ( c ) in 2019 , cop 25 changed the due date for submission of the fifth biennial reports of annex i parties ( including annex ii parties ) , which were to include information on climate finance provided to non -annex i pa rties in 2019 –2020 , t
s that the technology executive committee shall comprise , in addition to its current membership , one additional member from parties included in annex i to the convention and one additi onal member from parties not included in the annex i to the convention that are not represented by the regions r
membership , one additional member from parties included in annex i to the convention and one additi onal member from parties not included in the annex i to the convention that are not represented by the regions referred to in paragraph 1 ( b ) of appendix iv to decision 1/cp.16 ; ii . activities a
loping countries pertaining to the implementation of the convention ; 1 fccc/sbi/2022/14 . 2 fccc/sbi/2022/14 , chap . iii . 3 fccc/sbi/2020/13 , annex i . 4 fccc/sbi/2022/14 , annex i . 5 see document fccc/sbi/2022/14 , para . 14. fccc/cp/2022/10/add.2 34 10. invites parties and relevant instituti
the implementation of the convention ; 1 fccc/sbi/2022/14 . 2 fccc/sbi/2022/14 , chap . iii . 3 fccc/sbi/2020/13 , annex i . 4 fccc/sbi/2022/14 , annex i . 5 see document fccc/sbi/2022/14 , para . 14. fccc/cp/2022/10/add.2 34 10. invites parties and relevant institutions , as appropriate , to provi
les of indicative contributions for 2022 –2023 ; 6 11. adopts the indicative scale of contributions contained in the annex ; 1 decision 15/cp.1 , annex i . 2 fccc/sbi/2022/3 and add.1 , fccc/sbi/2022/9 , fccc/sbi/2022/inf.1 , fccc/sbi/2022/inf.2 , fccc/sbi/2022/inf.3 , fccc/sbi/2022/inf.7 and fccc/
, and to the trust fund for supplementary activities to ensure a high level of implementation of the unfccc work programme ; 1 decision 15/cp.1 , annex i . 2 fccc/sbi/2022/inf.10 and add.1 , fccc/sbi/2022/inf.11 and fccc/sbi/2022/inf.16 . 3 fccc/sbi/2022/inf.11 . 4 fccc/sbi/2022/inf.16 . fccc/cp/20
ion ( december 2018 ) ; 3. requests the secretariat to devel op an online platform that will provide an overview , based on the list contained in annex i , with weblinks to complete information and references on the work of the conference of the parties and the subsidiary and constitut ed bodies on
ision 1/cp.22 , paragraph 16 . 4 as established by decision 1/cp.21 , paragraph 115 . see also http : //unfccc.int/9985 . fccc/cp/2017/11/add.1 5 annex i work of the conference of the parties and the subsidia ry and constituted bodies on the work programme under the paris agreement for the first se
0 19/cp.23 training programme for review experts for the technical review of biennial reports and national communications of par ties included in annex i to the convention ................................ ................................ 11 20/cp.23 administrative , financial and institutional matt
 conference of the parties and the united nations environment programme regarding the hosting of the climate technology cent re , as contained in annex i to decision 14/cp.18 , for a further four-year period , in accordance with decision 2/cp.17 , annex vii , paragraph 22 ; 6. authorizes the execut
dures for preparing the joint annual report of the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network , as contained in annex i to the joint annual report referred to in paragraph 1 above ; 5. requests the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre an
ients of assistance have started to transfer their own expertise , knowledge and lessons learned on capacity -building to parties not included in annex i to the convention ; ( b ) parties included in annex i to the convention and the glob al environment facility , within its mandate , have provided
 expertise , knowledge and lessons learned on capacity -building to parties not included in annex i to the convention ; ( b ) parties included in annex i to the convention and the glob al environment facility , within its mandate , have provided adequate resources and assistance for the implementat
on 19/cp.23 training programme for review experts for the technical review of biennial reports and national communications of parties included in annex i to the convention the conference of the parties , recalling articles 4 , 7 and 12 of the convention and decisions 2/cp.1 , 9/cp.2 , 6/cp.3 , 4/cp
rmation reported under the convention related to greenhouse gas inventories , biennial reports and national communications by parties included in annex i to the convention , further recalling decision 15/cp.20 on the training programme for review experts for the technical review of biennial reports
p.20 on the training programme for review experts for the technical review of biennial reports and national communications of parties included in annex i to the convention , having considered the relevant recommendations of the subsi diary body for scientific and technological advice , recognizing 
ance of the training programme for review experts for the technical review of biennial reports and national communications of parties included in annex i to the convention and the importance of enhancing the training programme , 1. requests the secretariat to enhance the materials of the training p
ing into account the experience gained in conducting the technical reviews of biennial reports and national communications of parties included in annex i to the convention since 2014 , before the start of the reviews of the seventh national communications and third biennial reports of parties inclu
 convention since 2014 , before the start of the reviews of the seventh national communications and third biennial reports of parties included in annex i to the convention in 2018 ; 2. also requests the secretariat to enhance the user interface of the training courses with a view to making them mor
ng programme and examinations for review experts for t he technical review of biennial reports and national communications of parties included in annex i to the convention as outlined in the annex ; 4. requests the secretariat to include , in its annual report to the subsidiary body for scientific 
.2 12 annex training programme for review experts for the technical review of biennial reports and national communications of parties included in annex i to the convention a. details of the training programme 1. the courses are intended to train review experts for the technical review of biennial r
 the courses are intended to train review experts for the technical review of biennial reports and national communications of parties included in annex i to the convention . all training courses will be available online and able to be downloaded . for trainees without easy access to the internet , 
nical review of information on the provision of financial resources by parties included in annex ii to the convention t o parties not included in annex i to the convention , the promotion , facilitation and financing of the transfer of technology , and capacity -building , including creating nation
tion to the core budget of eur 766,938 and its special contribution of eur 1,789,522 as host government of the secretariat ; 1 decision 15/cp.1 , annex i . 2 fccc/sbi/2017 /13 , fccc/sbi/2017/inf.8 , fccc/sbi/2017 /inf.14 and fccc/sbi/2017 /inf.15 and add.1 . 3 fccc/sbi/2017/13 . 4 fccc/sbi/2017/in
estimates for the trust fund for participation in the unfccc process specified by the execut ive secretary ( see table 4 ) ; 1 decision 15/cp.1 , annex i . 2 fccc/sbi/2017/4 . 3 as footnote 1 above . fccc/cp/2017/11/add.2 17 14. invites parties to make contributions to the trust fund for participat
issions , roster of experts and meeting of lead reviewers 2 006 000 17 supporting the implementation of technical reviews of ghg inventories from annex i parties 1 095 580 18 supporting the implementation of the work programme of the scf and climate finance mandated activities 1 516 799 19 supporti
3 484 419 abbreviations : ac = adaptation committee , cge = consultative group of experts on national communications from parties not included in annex i to the convention , ghg = greenhouse gas , ica = international consultation and analysis , iar = international assessment and review , indc = int
 0.057 yemen 0.010 0.010 0.010 zambia 0.007 0.007 0.007 zimbabwe 0.004 0.004 0.004 total 102.509 100.000 100.000 a pursuant to decision 15/cp.1 , annex i , paragraph 7 ( a ) , the unfccc scale of indicative contributions may be adjusted following the adoption by the united nations general assembly 
rview of climate finance flows of the standing committee on finance,2 in particular the summary,3 and endorses its key findings , as contained in annex i ; 3. notes that global climate finance flows were 16 per cent higher in 2017– 2018 than in 2015 –2016 , reach ing an annual average of usd 775 bi
 of the parties . 7 fccc/cp/2021/10 –fccc/pa/cma/2021/7 , annex ii . 8 fccc/cp/2021/10/add.5 –fccc/pa/cma/2021/7/add.5 . fccc/cp/2021/12/add.1 17 annex i * summary by the standing committee on finance of the fourth ( 2020 ) biennial assessment and overview of climate finance flows [ english only ] 
rivate finance mobilized by public interventions . 12. data coverage and granularity of reporting on climate finance received in the burs of non- annex i parties has improved since the previous ba . nineteen parties have submitted a bur for the first time since the previous ba , in addition to a fu
7 and usd 14.6 billion in 2018 . 30. information on the recipients of climate finance remains limited . the increase in bur submissions from non- annex i parties has resulted in a greater amount of information on finance received than for previous bas . however , time lags in data availability for 
dice to the meaning of this term in the context of the convention and the paris agreement , including but not limited to parties not includ ed in annex i to the convention and other classifications used in regional and global reports . fccc/cp/2021/12/add.1 41 figure 4 shares of annual average clea
to implementing the convention and the paris agreement , 7 national ly determined 5 see global environment facility document gef/c.54/10/rev.01 , annex i , para . 5 . 6 contained in global environment facility document gef/c.60/08 , annex i . 7 standing committee on finance . 2021. first report on 
 global environment facility document gef/c.54/10/rev.01 , annex i , para . 5 . 6 contained in global environment facility document gef/c.60/08 , annex i . 7 standing committee on finance . 2021. first report on the determination of the needs of developing country parties related to implementing th
resentation , shall constitute the following : ( a ) eighteen government representatives , comprising equal representation of parties included in annex i to the convention ( annex i parties ) and parties not included in annex i to the convention ( non- annex i parties ) and , for non- annex i parti
te the following : ( a ) eighteen government representatives , comprising equal representation of parties included in annex i to the convention ( annex i parties ) and parties not included in annex i to the convention ( non- annex i parties ) and , for non- annex i parties , ensuring equitable repr
epresentatives , comprising equal representation of parties included in annex i to the convention ( annex i parties ) and parties not included in annex i to the convention ( non- annex i parties ) and , for non- annex i parties , ensuring equitable representation of the united nations regional grou
 representation of parties included in annex i to the convention ( annex i parties ) and parties not included in annex i to the convention ( non- annex i parties ) and , for non- annex i parties , ensuring equitable representation of the united nations regional groups ; ( b ) the chair and the vice
ed in annex i to the convention ( annex i parties ) and parties not included in annex i to the convention ( non- annex i parties ) and , for non- annex i parties , ensuring equitable representation of the united nations regional groups ; ( b ) the chair and the vice- chair of the technology executi
hair and a vice -chair from among the representatives referred to in paragraph 1 ( a ) above for a term of one year each , with one being from an annex i party and the other being from a non- annex i party . the positions of chair and vice- chair shall alternate annually between a representative of
tatives referred to in paragraph 1 ( a ) above for a term of one year each , with one being from an annex i party and the other being from a non- annex i party . the positions of chair and vice- chair shall alternate annually between a representative of an annex i party and a representative of a no
ty and the other being from a non- annex i party . the positions of chair and vice- chair shall alternate annually between a representative of an annex i party and a representative of a non -annex i party . 12. if the chair is temporarily unable to fulfil the obligations of the office , the vice -c
e conference of the parties and the united nations environment programme regarding the hosting of the climate technology centre , as contained in annex i to decision 14/cp.18 , for a further five -year period ; 10. authorizes the executive secretary to sign , on behalf of the conference of the part
ients of assistance have started to transfer their own expertise , knowledge and lessons learned on capacity -building to parties not included in annex i to the convention ; ( b ) parties included in annex i to the convention and the global environment facility , within i ts mandate , have provided
 expertise , knowledge and lessons learned on capacity -building to parties not included in annex i to the convention ; ( b ) parties included in annex i to the convention and the global environment facility , within i ts mandate , have provided adequate resources and assistance for the implementat
3. also decides to include in the composition of the consult ative group of experts , in addition to current members from parties not included in annex i to the convention , one additional member from the least developed countries and one additional member from small island developing states , noti
1 to support implementation of the existing measurement , reporting and verification arrangements under the convention by parties not included in annex i to the convention ( non -annex i parties ) , the consultative group of experts shall : ( a ) provide , taking into account decision 1/cp.24 , par
ons2 and biennial update reports in accordance with the “ guidelines for the preparation of national c ommunications from parties not included in annex i to the convention ” , contained in the annex to decision 17/cp.8 , and the “ unfccc biennial update reporting guidelines for parties not included
the convention ” , contained in the annex to decision 17/cp.8 , and the “ unfccc biennial update reporting guidelines for parties not included in annex i to the convention ” , contained in annex iii to decisi on 2/cp.17 ; ( b ) provide recommendations , as appropriate , on elements to be considered
on elements to be considered in a future revision of the “ guidelines for the preparation of national communications from parties not included in annex i to the convention ” , taking into account the experi ence of non-annex i parties in preparing their national communications ; ( c ) provide techn
 the work of the forum and its katowice committee on impacts ; 5. adopt the recommendations pertaining to activity 1 of the workplan contained in annex i , forwarded by the forum in the 2020 –2021 annual report of the katowice committee on impacts , and invite parties to implement them , as applica
 to minimize the adverse impacts and maximize the positive impacts of the implementation of response measures on the recommendations contained in annex i ; 9. recall the rules of procedure of the katowice committee on impacts4 and encourage groups to nominate members to the katowice committee on im
sources . 5 https : //www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/pages/home.aspx . 6 as per decision 19/cma.1 , para . 24. fccc/cp/2021/12/add.2 29 annex i recommendations forwarded by the forum pertaining to activity 1 of the workplan : exploring approaches to inform the development and implementati
ent of each such appropriation line shall apply , while ensuring no negative impacts on the activities under each division ; 1 decision 15/cp.1 , annex i , as amended by decision 17/cp.4 , para . 16 . 2 fccc/sbi/2021/4 and add.1 –2 . 3 see document fccc/sbi/20 21/4 , chap . iii . c. fccc/cp/2021/12
 executive secretary to prepare annual budget performance reports covering 12 and 24 months of the biennium , respectively ; 1 decision 15/cp.1 , annex i . 2 fccc/sbi /2020/3 and add.1 –2 , fccc/sbi/2021/5 and add.1 , fccc/sbi/2021/inf.8 , fccc/sbi/2020/inf.9 and add.1 , fccc/sbi/2021/inf.4 and add
