s , including those for estimating and accounting for anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions and , as appropriate , removals , and how the party considers that its nationally determined contribution is fair and ambitious , in the light of its national circumstances , and how it contributes towards 
tion , as necessary ; ( g ) the intention to use voluntary cooperation under article 6 of the paris agreement , if applicable . 6. how the party considers that its nationally determined contribution is fair and ambitious in the light of its national circumstances : ( a ) how the par ty considers th
ty considers that its nationally determined contribution is fair and ambitious in the light of its national circumstances : ( a ) how the par ty considers that its nationally determined contribution is fair and ambitious in the light of its national circumstances ; ( b ) fairness considerations , i
 , and regional and international cooperation are considered in the preparation and implementation of the actions under the paris agreement ; 9. considers that parties and stakeholders may , as appropriate , take into account actions to enhance climate change education , training , public awareness
exibility to instead submit written responses up to two weeks prior to the working group session . the party may indicate in its response i f it considers the written question to be outside the scope of a facilitative , multilateral consideration of progress ; ( d ) the secretariat shall compile th
nd/or compliance . 3. the submission should also contain , inter alia : ( a ) additional information and supporting documentation that the party considers is material and sufficient to the issue with respect to its own implementation of and/or compliance with the relevant provision ( s ) of t he pa
es ; ( g ) an electronic copy of the modalities and procedures and these rules of procedure , as well as decisions of the cma that the committee considers relevant to the consideration of issues . 3. in the notification , the committee shall bring to the attention of the party concerned that it may
nd contributes to achieving the long -term temperature goal of the paris agreement ; ( e ) is conducted in a manner that respects , promotes and considers respective obligations of parties on human rights , the right to health , the rights of indigenous peoples , local communities , migrants , chil
ht the areas of improvement that are related to their flexibility provisions . fccc/pa/cma/2021/10/add.2 43 ix . any other information the party considers relevant to the achievement of the objective of the paris agreement , and suitable for inclusion in its biennial transparency report annexes as 
or the revision of a baseline and monitoring methodology without a draft project or programme design document in cases where the executive board considers that the assessment of such a request can be conducted without the project -specific information ; 13. requests the executive board to implement
or the revision of a baseline and monitoring methodology without a draft project or programme design document in cases where the executive board considers that the assessment of such a request can be conducted without the project -specific information ; 13. requests the executive board to implement
es including those for estimating and accounting for anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions and , as appro priate , removals , and how the party considers that its nationally determined contribution is fair and ambitious , in the light of its national circumstances , and how it contributes towards 
iew the progress , need for extension , the effectiveness and enhancement of the paris committee on capacity -building and to take any action it considers appropriate , with a view to making recommend ations to the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreeme
finance and south –south coopera tion , as well as the other climate -related flows that constitute global total climate finance flows . it then considers the implications of these flows , including composition , purpose and emergent trends relevant to the unfccc objectives , including the new goal
 -related flows that constitute global total climate finance flows . it also includes information on trends since the 2014 ba . the 2018 ba then considers the implications of these flows and assesses their relevance to interna tional efforts to address climate change . it explores the key features 
