eement and the convening of the first session of the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement ; 10. decides to convene , at the second part of its first session , a joint meeting with the conference of the parties , at its twenty -third session ( novemb
 session ( november 2017 ) , to review progress on the implementation of the work programme under the paris agreement ; iii . adaptation fund 11. decides that the adaptation fund should serve the paris agreement , following and consistent with decisions to be take n at the third part of the first s
he conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement , recalling articles 16 and 18 of the paris agreement , decides that , when applying the draft rules of procedure of the conference of the parties,1 pursuant to article 16 , paragraph 5 , of the paris agreemen
presses its appreciation to the subsidiary and constituted bodies for their work on the implementation of the paris agreement work programme ; 4. decides , having considered the draft decisions on matters relating to the paris agreement work programme forwarded by the conference of the parties at i
east capacity and those that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change , to take effective climate change action ; 12. decides to consider at its secon d session any recommendations made by the conference of the parties at its twenty -fifth session ( december 2019 ) pursu
tions made by the conference of the parties at its twenty -fifth session ( december 2019 ) pursuant to decision 1/cp.21 , paragraph 81 ; 13. also decides to consider and adopt at its second session a decision on the initial institutional ar rangements for capacity -building ; iv . administrative an
) parties shall provide an explanation of why any categories of anthropogenic emissions or removals are excluded ; fccc/pa/cma/2018/3/add.1 8 13. decides that , in accounting for anthropogenic emissions and removals corresponding to their nationally determined contributions under article 4 , paragr
t nationally determined contributions , and that parties may elect to apply such guidance to their first nationally determined contribution ; 15. decides that , in accounting fo r anthropogenic emissions and removals corresponding to their nationally determined contributions , parties shall ensure 
icle 4 , paragraph 7 , of the paris agreement shall follow the guidance contained in annex ii as it relates to such mitigation co -benefits ; 17. decides that parties shall account for their nationally determined contributions in their biennial transparency reports , including through a structured 
eement and any relevant guidance adopted by the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement ; 18. also decides to initiate the review of and , if necessary , update the information to facilitate cl arity , transparency and understanding of nationally deter
paragraph 26 19. notes that features of nationally determined contributions are outlined in the relevant provisions of the paris ag reement ; 20. decides to continue consideration of further guidance on features of nationally determined contributions at its seventh session ( 2024 ) . fccc/pa/cma/20
 for the operation and use of the public registry referred to in article 4 , paragraph 12 , of the paris agreement as contained in the annex ; 2. decides that the interim public registry prepared by the secretariat pursuant to decision 1/cp.21 , paragraph 30 , shall serve as the public re gistry re
n by the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at its second session ( december 2019 ) ; 3. also decides that the public registry referred to in paragraph 1 above shall be made available by the secretariat , together with the public registry refer re
o in article 4 , paragraph 12 , of the paris agreement , and to provide assistance on its use to parties , other stakeholders and the public ; 5. decides to consider and conclude at its second session whether the prototype referred to in paragraph 4 ( a ) above conforms to the modalities and proced
whether the prototype referred to in paragraph 4 ( a ) above conforms to the modalities and procedures referred to in paragraph 1 above ; 6. also decides that the interim public registry prepared by the secretariat pursuant to decision 1/cp.21 , paragraph 30 , shall continue to be use d on an inter
the paris agreement , and takes note of the rich e xchange of views and range of options considered and proposed by parties on this matter ; 2 2. decides that parties shall apply common time frames to their nationally determined contributions to be implemented from 2031 onward ; 3. requests the sub
romote a supportive and inclusive international economic system that will lead to sustainable economic growth and development in all parties , 1. decides that in accordance with decision 1/cp.21 , paragraph 33 , the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures ( hereinafter referr
eement , where the forum requires the guidance of the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement ; 5. decides to establish a katowice committee of experts on the impacts of the implementation of response measures ( hereinafter referred to as the katowice 
the katowice committee on impacts , noting that the chairs of the subsidiary bodies shall be notified of these appointments by 15 april 2019 ; 9. decides that the forum shall develop and recommend a six -year workplan in line with the forum ’ s functions , work programme and modalities , taking int
arties to submit their views on the workplan of the forum and the katowice committee on impacts via the submission portal1 by 15 april 2019 ; 12. decides that the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures shall provide recommendations for consideration by the subsidiary bodies 
eveloping countries ; ( c ) provide input to the global stocktake ; ( d ) enhance learning and understanding of adaptation needs and actions ; 2. decides that the adaptation communi cation : ( a ) is country -driven and flexible , including in the choice of communication or document , as provided i
an , a nationally determined contribution as referred to in article 4 , paragraph 2 , of the paris agreement and/or a national communication ; 4. decides that parties may , as appropriate , also submit and update their adaptation communication as a compo nent of or in conjunction with the reports o
y bodies at their fifty -seventh sessions ( november 2022 ) in the context of their consideration of the report of the adaptation committee ; 16. decides to take stock of , and if necessary revise , the guidance contained in this decision , taking into account the submissions referred to in paragra
e parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement , recalling article 7 , paragraphs 11 and 12 , of the paris agreement , 1. decides to establish the public registry for adaptation communications referred to in article 7 , paragraph 12 , of the paris agreement to contain adapta
reement to contain adaptation communications submitted by parties in acc ordance with article 7 , paragraph 11 , of the paris agreement ; 2. also decides to adopt the modalities and procedures for the operation and use of the public registry referred to in paragraph 1 above as contained in the anne
odalities and procedures for the operation and use of the public registry referred to in paragraph 1 above as contained in the annex ; 3. further decides that the public registry referred to in paragraph 1 above shall be made available by the secretariat , together with the public registry referred
ate the public registry referred to in paragraph 1 above and to provide assistance on its use to parties , other stakeholders and the public ; 5. decides to consider and conclude at its second session ( december 2019 ) whether the prototype referred to in paragraph 4 ( a ) above shall serve as the 
decision 1/cp.21 , paragraphs 41 , 42 and 45 , i. ways to enhance the coherence of the work of adaptation - related institutional arrangements 1. decides that the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group shall serve the paris agreement ; 2. assigns any future and emerging
repared under the transparency framework and reports of the intergovernmental panel on climate change and other relevant s cientific bodies ; 10. decides to recognize , guided by the high -level committee and taking into account a country -driven approach , the adaptation efforts of developing coun
ng on , inter alia , the synthesis report referred to in paragraph 9 above and the outputs referred to in paragraph 34 of decision 19/cma.1 ; 12. decides to make use of existing national , regional and global events , including the nap expo and the adaptation forum of the adaptation committee , to 
fter the submission of the first biennial communications referred to in paragraph 2 above , and to prepare a summary report on each workshop ; 9. decides to consider the compilations and syntheses referred to in paragraph 7 above and the summary report s on the in -session workshops referred to in 
nd the summary report s on the in -session workshops referred to in paragraph 8 above starting at its fourth session ( november 2021 ) ; 10. also decides to convene a biennial high -level ministerial dialogue on climate finance beginning in 2021 , to be informed , inter alia , by the summary report
ses and the summary reports on the in -session workshops referred to in paragraphs 7 and 8 above , respectively ; fccc/pa/cma/2018/3/add.1 36 13. decides to consider updating the types of information contained in the annex at its sixth session ( 2023 ) on the basis of parties ’ experience and lesso
 13/cma.1 matters relating to the adaptation fund the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement , 1. decides that the adaptation fund shall serve the paris agreement under the guidance of , and be accountable to , the conference of the parties serving as
ntry parties and developed country parties that are parties to the paris agreement are eligible for membership on the adaptation fund boar d ; 5. decides that , when the adaptation fund serves the paris agreement , it shall be financed from the share of proceeds from the mechanism esta blished by a
ph 53 the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement , recalling decision 1/cp.21 , paragraph 53 , 1. decides to initiate at its third session ( november 2020 ) , in accordance with article 9 , paragraph 3 , of the paris agreement , deliberations on setti
p.21 , paragraph 67 , 1. adopts the technology framework under article 10 , paragraph 4 , of the paris agreement as elaborated in th e annex ; 2. decides that the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network , consistent ly with their respective functions , mandates 
sfer at different stages of the technology cycle , and agrees that the technology framework can facilitate the strengthening of such support ; 7. decides that the outcome of and/or recommendations resulting from the periodic assessment referred to in decision 1/cp.21 , paragraph 69 , shall be consi
paris agreement on matters relating to technology development and transfer , in accordance with decision 1/cp.21 , as contained in the annex ; 2. decides that the periodic assessment referred to in paragraph 1 above should be undertaken in a transparent , inclu sive and participatory manner ; 3. al
 these may be subsequen tly amended , with a view to completing the first periodic assessment at its fifth session ( november 2022 ) ; 4. further decides that the outcomes of the periodic assessment referred to in paragraph 1 above should serve as an input to the global stocktake referr ed to in ar
sessment referred to in paragraph 1 above should serve as an input to the global stocktake referr ed to in article 14 of the paris agreement ; 5. decides that the outcome of the periodic assessment should guide improved effectiveness and enhanced support to the technology mechanism in supporting th
es between activities taken to support article 6 of the convention , article 12 of the paris agreement and the sustainable development goals , 1. decides that efforts related to the implementation of article 12 of the paris agreement will also be referred to as action for climate empowerment ; 2. i
convention in accordance with decision 15/cp.18 , to also include efforts related to the implementation of article 12 of the paris agreement ; 3. decides that the focal points nominated under article 6 of the c onvention will also serve as focal points under article 12 of the paris agreement and wi
later than 2028 on the basis of experience in reporting , technical expert review and facilitative , multilateral consideration of progress , and decides that subsequent reviews and updates will be undertaken as and when the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the par
ken as and when the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement determines them to be appropriate ; 3. decides that parties shall submit their first biennial transparency report and national inventory report , if submitted as a stand -alone report , in acc
 submitted as a stand -alone report , in accordance with the modalities , procedures and guidelines , at the latest by 31 december 2024 ; 4. also decides that the least developed country parties and small islan d developing states may submit the information referred to in article 13 , paragraphs 7 
ision 14/cp.19 , paragrap h 11 , shall be carried out concurrently with the technical expert review under article 13 of the paris agreement ; 15. decides that , subject to the extension of its term by the conference of the parties , as referred to in decision 11/cp.24 , paragraph 1 , the con sultat
cons idering mitigation , adaptation and the means of implementation and support , and in the light of equity and the best available science ; 2. decides that equity and the best avai lable science will be considered in a party -driven and cross -cutting manner , throughout the global stocktake ; 3
quity and the best avai lable science will be considered in a party -driven and cross -cutting manner , throughout the global stocktake ; 3. also decides that the global stocktake will consist of the following components : ( a ) information collection and preparation , focusing on gathering , co mp
in accordance with relevant provisions of the paris agreement , as well as in enhancing international cooperation for climate action ; 4. further decides that the global stocktake will be conducted with the assistance of the subsidiary body for implementation and the subsidiary body for scientific 
h expert consideration of inputs , as identified in the source s of input referred to in paragraphs 36 and 37 below for the global stocktake ; 6. decides to establish the technical dialogue referred to in paragraph 5 above , which will : ( a ) undertake its work through a focused exchange of views 
ross -cutting questions , one session of the subsidiary bodies prior to the relevant activities under the global stocktake being carried out ; 8. decides that the information collection and preparation component of the global stocktake will commence one session before the start of the technical ass
nt ( november 2023 ) , during which the consideration of outputs will take place , with the cycle repeating every five years thereafter ; 9. also decides that the global stocktake will be conducted in a comprehensive , facilitative , effective and efficient manner , avoiding duplication of work and
k and taking into account t he results of relevant work conducted under the paris agreement , the convention and the kyoto protocol ; 10. further decides that the global stocktake will be a party -driven process conducted in a transparent manner and with the participation of non -party stake holder
tive and equitable participation , all inputs will be fully accessible by parties , including online , as referred to in paragraph 21 below ; 11. decides that the participation of parties in the global stocktake should be en sured through the provision of adequate funding for the participation and 
states and other developing countries can effectively participate in the global stocktake and take up relevant global stocktake information ; 13. decides that the outputs of the components of the global stocktake referred to in paragraph 3 above should summarize opportunities and challenges for enh
support in accorda nce with relevant provisions of the paris agreement as well as in enhancing international cooperation for climate action ; 15. decides to consider refining the procedural and logistical elements of the overall global stocktake process on the basis of experience gained from the fi
low , taking into account that such inputs should be submitted at least three months before their consideration in the technical assessment ; 20. decides that the information collection and preparation component of the global stocktake will end no later than six months before the consideration of o
iary body for scientific and technological advice and the intergovernmental panel on climate chan ge in the context of the global stocktake ; 30. decides that the technical dialogue referred to in paragraph 6 above will be open , inclusive , transparent and facilitative , and will allow parties to 
angements under or serving the paris agreement and/or the convention and experts and to consider inputs and assess collective progress ; 31. also decides that the co -facilitators of the technical dialogue will summarize its outputs in summary reports , taking into account equity and the best avail
ematic area referred to in paragraph 6 ( b ) above and an overarching factual synthesis of these reports in a cross -cutting manner ; 32. further decides that the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures will summarize its outcome in accordance with the relevant elements of it
he relevant elements of its modalities , work programme and functions pursuant t o decision 1/cp.21 , paragraph 34 ; consideration of outputs 33. decides that the consideration of outputs will consist of high -level events where the findings of the technical assessment will be presented and their i
logical advice and the subsidiary body for implementation ; 3 see document fccc/sbsta/2016/4 , paragraph 56. fccc/pa/cma/2018/3/add.2 57 34. also decides that the outputs of this component of the global stocktake should : ( a ) identify opportunities for and challenges in enhancing action and suppo
on by the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement and/or a declaration ; ii . sources of input 35. decides that the sources of input fo r the global stocktake should inform the thematic areas referred to in paragraph 6 ( b ) above ; 36. also decides th
5. decides that the sources of input fo r the global stocktake should inform the thematic areas referred to in paragraph 6 ( b ) above ; 36. also decides that the sources of input for the global stocktake will consider information at a collective level on : ( a ) the state of greenhouse gas emissio
aris agreement ; ( h ) fairness considerations , including equity , as communicated by parties in their nationally determined contributions ; 37. decides that the sources of input for the global stocktake include : ( a ) reports and communications from parties , in particular those submitted under 
ures for the effective operation of the committee referred to in article 15 , paragraph 2 , of the paris agreement as contained in the annex ; 2. decides to undertake , at th e seventh session of the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement ( 2024 ) , t
ntent of the contributions , communications , information and reports referred to in paragraph 22 ( a ) ( i –iv ) above . 24. where the committee decides to initiate a consideration as referred to in paragraph 22 above , it shall notify the party concerned and request it to provide the necessary in
xperts under and outside the convention and the paris agreeme nt , ensuring a fair , equitable and balanced representation within the group ; 41. decides that the expert group referred to in paragraph 40 above shall develop a focused plan of action , while avoiding duplication of existing efforts ,
 agreement , in line with their respective mandates , as well as by various bodies and actors outside the convention and the paris agreement ; 3. decides that the paris committee on capacity -building shall serve the paris agreem ent in accordance with its mandate1 and terms of reference ; 2 4. als
, information on work on issues pertaining to capacity -building under the paris agreement undertaken by bodies se rving the paris agreement ; 7. decides that inputs to the work of the paris committee on capacity -building on issues pertaining to capacity -building under the paris agreement may inc
ment of standing committee on finance focal points to liaise with the other constituted bodies under the convention and the paris agreement ; 17. decides to initiate the review of the functions8 of the standing committee on finance relating to the paris agreement , as part of the review referred to
 highlights the important role of the instruments related to social solidarity and protection in mitigating the impacts of applied measures ; 52. decides to establish a work programme on just transition for discussion of pathways to achieving the goals of the paris agreement outlined in article 2 ,
 under the convention and the paris agreement , including the work programme for urgently scaling up mitigation ambition and implementation ; 53. decides to convene , as part of the work programme on just transition , an annual high - level ministerial round table on just transition , beginning at 
he green climate fund while demonstrating progression from the previous replenishment and in line with the programming capacity of the fund ; 68. decides to launch the sharm el -sheikh dialogue between parties , relevant organizations and stakeholders to exchange views on and enhance understanding 
the effectiveness and adequacy of the support provided to the technology mechanism in supporting the implementa tion of the paris agreement20 and decides that the main challenges identified therein should be considered under the global stocktake ; 70. highlights the importance of cooperation on tec
key component of and makes a contribution to the long -term global response to climate change to protect people , livelihoods and ecosystems ; 8. decides to initiate the development of a framework for the global goal on adaptation to be undertaken through a structured approach under the glasgow –sh
fifth session of the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement ( november –december 2023 ) ; 9. also decides that the framework referred to in parag raph 8 above will guide the achievement of the global goal on adaptation and the review of overall progre
asing adverse impacts , risks and vulnerabilities associated with climate change , as well as enhance adaptation action and support ; 10. further decides that the framework , through the structured approach referred to in paragraph 8 above , may take into consideration , inter alia : ( a ) dimensio
 relevant reports from regional groups and institutions ; ( ix ) submissions from non -party stakeholders and unfccc observer organizations ; 11. decides to review the framework referred to in paragraph 8 above prior to the second global stock take ; 12. also decides that the four workshops under t
cc observer organizations ; 11. decides to review the framework referred to in paragraph 8 above prior to the second global stock take ; 12. also decides that the four workshops under the glasgow –sharm el -sheikh work programme in 2023 will all be held in person , with the option available for par
eikh work programme in 2023 will all be held in person , with the option available for participants to actively take part virtually ; 13. further decides to hold the first workshop in 2023 no later than in march and the fourth workshop in 2023 no later than six weeks prior to the fifth session of t
w –sharm el -sheikh work programme in reviewing progress in achieving the global goal on adaptation as part of the first global stocktake ; 9 24. decides that the elements contained in paragraph 10 above will be taken into consideration for reviewing overall progress in achieving the global goal on
/add.1 23 urgently scale up mitigation ambition and implementation in this critical decade in a manner that complements the global stocktake ; 2. decides that the work programme shall be operationalized through focused exchanges of views , information and ideas , noting that the o utcomes of the wo
es , take into account the nationally determined nature of nationally determined contributions and will not impose new targets or goals ; 3. also decides that the work programme shall function in a manner that is consistent with the procedures and timelines for communication of successive nationall
ionally determined contributions established in the paris agreement , recalling it s article 4 , paragraph 11 , and decision 1/cma.3 ; 4. further decides that the scope of the work programme should be based on broad thematic areas relevant to urgently scaling up mitigation ambition and implementati
he intergovernmental panel on clim ate change,1 and relevant enabling conditions , technologies , just transitions and cross -cutting issues ; 5. decides that implementation of the work programme will start immediately after the fourth session of the conference of the parties serving as the meeting
continue until its eighth session ( 2026 ) with a view to adopting a decision on the continuation of the work programme at that session ; 6. also decides that the work programme will be carried out under the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement ; 7.
pective constituencies , two co -chairs for the work programme , one f rom a developed country party and one from a developing country party ; 8. decides that at least two global dialogues shall be held each year as part of the work programme , with one to be held prior to the first regular session
mber –december 2023 ) , and that such dialogues should be conducted in hybrid format to allow both in -person and virtual participation ; 9. also decides that other in -person or hybrid dialogues may be held each year in conjunction with existing events , such as the regional climate weeks , at the
reafter suggested topics in line with the sco pe of the work programme referred to in paragraph 4 above to be discussed under the dialogues ; 13. decides that the co -chairs of the work programme , considering the submissions referred to in paragraph 12 above , will decide on and communicate by 1 m
 to facilitating interactive discussions , substantively advancing shared understanding of the goal and providing guidance for work in 2024 ; 16. decides to continue its deliberations on setting a new collective quantified goal on climate finance at its fifth and sixth ( november 2024 ) sessions , 
ifies that the vintage of an internationally transferred mitigation outcome is the calendar year in which the underlying mitigation occurred ; 6. decides that a participating party that identifies information as confidential , pursuant to decision 2/cma.3 , annex , pa ragraph 24 , should provide th
ation as confidential , pursuant to decision 2/cma.3 , annex , pa ragraph 24 , should provide the basis for protecting such information ; 7. also decides that article 6 technical expert review teams will follow the article 6 technical expert review report outline contained in annex iii ; 8. invites
s , are internationally transferred mitigation outcomes and relevant guidance under article 6 , paragraph 2 , of the paris agreement applies , 1. decides to elaborate the processes referred to in decision 3/cma.3 , paragraph 7 ( b –g ) , on the basis of the rules , modalities and procedures for the
daptation fund may be modified by the supervisory body in future on th e basis of its review of the implementation of the provision thereon ; 17. decides that the level and frequency of a periodic contribution from the remaining funds received from the share of proceeds for administrative expenses 
rs , in accordance with standard unfccc practices for web -based communicat ions and the specifications referred to in paragraphs 6–13 below ; 6. decides that the unfccc web -based platform is to facilitate opportunities , including by connecting participating parties , to identify , develop and im
ted non - market approaches and are seeking support , and parties and entities that have submitted information on the support available ; 7. also decides that a party participating in a non -market approach may , with the concurrence of the other participating parties , voluntarily : ( a ) submit v
 each workshop for consideration by the glasgow committee on non -market approaches at its subsequent meeting ; fccc/pa/cma/2022/ 10/add.2 57 11. decides that the unfccc web -based platform is to contain an information hub that provides information on available resources and tools , including links
so recog nizing the importance of training the experts who conduct the voluntary reviews and allocating resources to facilitate such reviews , 1. decides that a party may , on a voluntary basis , request the secretariat to organize a review of the information reported b y the party pursuant to deci
 to decision 18/cma.1 , annex , chapter iv , as part of the technical expert review pursuant to decision 18/cma.1 , annex , chapter vii ; 2. also decides that the voluntary review , taking into account decision 18/cma.1 , annex , paragraphs 147 –149 , consists of : fccc/pa/cma/2022/ 10/add.2 60 ( a
hapter iv , by identifying , in consultation with the party , areas of improvement and capacity -building needs related to reporting ; 3. further decides that th e party undergoing the voluntary review may select specific sections of the chapter in the biennial transparency report pursuant to decis
parency report pursuant to decision 18/cma.1 , annex , chapter iv , for particular attention by the expert review team conducting the review ; 4. decides that a party may submit a request for the voluntary review to the secretariat either in the overview section of the biennial transparency report 
the overview section of the biennial transparency report or when agreeing with the secretariat the dates of the technical expert review ; 5. also decides that the outcome of the voluntary review should be presented in a dedicated annex to the techni cal expert review report referred to in decision 
gical advice at its fifty -eighth ( june 2023 ) and each subsequent session until the development of the training course has been completed ; 10. decides to undertake a review of the training course in the context of the review of the modalities , procedures and guidelines contained in the annex to
rangements of the santiago network from 4 to 6 may 2022 , including for making the necessary logistical and financial arrange ments therefor ; 3. decides that the santiago network will have the following structure : ( a ) a hosted secretariat that will facilitate its work , to be known as the santi
pledges th at have already been made to the santiago network ; 8. adopts the terms of reference of the santiago network contained in annex i ; 9. decides to establish the advisory board of the santiago network as part of the warsaw international mechanism for loss and damage associated with climate
d guidance of and accountable to the appropriate governing body or bodies4 and have the roles and responsibilities outlined in annex i ; 10. also decides that the members of the advis ory board will be elected at the next session of the governing body or bodies ( november –december 2023 ) and encou
ance , in accordance with decisions 36/cp.7 , 23/c p.18 and 3/cp.25 , and the composition of the advisory board outlined in annex i ; 11. further decides that the members elected to the advisory board shall serve a term of two years and shall be eligible to serve a maximum of two consecutive terms 
s elected to the advisory board shall serve a term of two years and shall be eligible to serve a maximum of two consecutive terms of office ; 12. decides that half of the members elected in 2023 shall serve a term of three years and half of the members shall serve a term of two years , after which 
a term of two years , after which time the governing body or bodies shall elect half of the members every year for a term of two years ; 13. also decides that the members of the advisory board shall remain in office until their successors are elected ; 14. requests the advisory board to develop dra
lable from organizations , bodies , networks and experts under the santiago network , until the santiago network secretariat is operational ; 16. decides that the santiago network secretariat will be accountable to and operate under the guidance of the governing body or bodies through the advisory 
r a consortium of organizations able to provide the necessary administrative and infrastructural support for its effective functioning ; 17. also decides that the santiago network secretariat shall , once it is operational , elaborate modalities and procedures for the santiago n etwork under the gu
e funded directly by the santiago network directed to communities particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of clim ate change ; 18. further decides that the selection process for the host of the santiago network secretariat shall be launched upon the conclusion of the twenty -seventh session 
clear/tec/documents.html . 3 in response to the recommendation set out in document fccc/sbi/2022/13 , para . 75. fccc/pa/cma/2022/ 10/add.3 29 8. decides that the main challenges identified in the periodic assessment referred to in paragraph 1 above be given consideration in the global stocktake ; 
en to parties and admitted non -party observers to observe , subject to paragraphs 13 –14 of the modalities and procedures , unless the committee decides to hold the meeting or a part/or parts thereof in a closed session in order to , inter alia , protect the confidentiality of information received
which would be applied mutatis mutandis to the comm ittee . 4. parties and admitted non -party observers shall leave the meeting if the committee decides to hold a part of the meeting in a closed session . 5. the parts of the meeting that are open to observers shall be recorded and the recording ma
ing that are open to observers shall be recorded and the recording made available on th e unfccc website after the meeting , unless the committee decides otherwise . 5 available at https : //unfccc.int/sites/default/files/guidelines_for_the_participation_of_ngos.pdf . fccc/pa/cma/2022/ 10/add.3 52 
e initiation of a consideration of issues , in accordan ce with paragraphs 20 or 22 ( a ) of the modalities and procedures 1. where the committee decides to initiate a consideration of issues in accordance with paragraphs 20 or 22 ( a ) of the modalities and procedures and rules 17 and 18 above , r
tatives of relevant bodies and arrangem ents , in accordance with paragraphs 25 ( c ) and 35 of the modalities and procedures 1. if the committee decides to seek expert advice in accordance with paragraphs 25 ( c ) and 35 of the modalities and procedures , taking into account rule 10 above , it sha
ice ; ( b ) identify the experts from whom it seeks advice ; ( c ) set the deadline for the submission of the expert advice . 2. if the committee decides to seek and receive information from processes , bodies , arrangements and forums under or serving the paris agreement in accordance with paragra
h accelerated action and implementation of domestic mitigation measures in accordance with article 4 , paragraph 2 , of the paris agreement ; 27. decides to establish a work programme to urgently scale up mitigation ambition and implementation in this critical decade and requests the subsidiary bod
 to be made available to the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at each of its sessions ; 31. decides to convene an annual high- level ministerial round table on pre -2030 ambition , beginni ng at the fourth session of the conference of the partie
erse effects of climate change , including the agreement on its functions and process for further developing its institutional arrangements ; 67. decides that the santiago network will be provided with funds to support technical assistance for the implementation of relevant approaches to avert , mi
tiago network and the terms for their disbursement shall be determined by the process set out in pa ragraph 10 of decision 19/cma.3 ; 69. further decides that the body providing secretarial services to facilitate work under the santiago network to be determined in accordance with paragraph 10 of de
society and communities to enhance understanding of how approaches to averting , minimizing and addressing loss and damage can be imp roved ; 73. decides to establish the glasgow dialogue between p arties , relevant organizations and stakeholders to discuss the arrangements for the funding of activ
erence of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement , including in the context of its review of the guidance ; 14. decides to review the guidance at its tenth session ( 2028 ) and to complete the review by no later than at its twelfth session ( 2030 ) in order to coor
 and technological advice to commence its work in 2028 to develop recommendations in relation to the review referred to in paragraph 14 above and decides that the relevant work of the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice shall include , but is not limited to : ( a ) participation
 supervisory body ; 3. invites the nomination of members and alternate members for the supervisory body pursuant to paragraph 9 of the annex ; 4. decides that at least two meetings of the supervisory body shall be held in 2022 ; 5. requests the supervisory body to : ( a ) develop provisions for the
obal emissions for consideration and adoption by the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement ; 10. decides that the confer ence of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement shall review the rules , modalities and procedur
vity , to cover the administrative expenses for registering the activity when submitting a request for registration . 49. if the supervisory body decides that the validation and its outcome meet the relevant requirements adopted by t he supervisory body , it shall register the activity as an articl
verification outcome and certification in accordance with the relevant requirements adopted by the supervisory body . 53. if the supervisory body decides that the verifi cation , certification and their outcome meet the relevant requirements adopted by the supervisory body , it shall approve the is
the work programme under the framework for non- market approaches referred to in decision 1/cp.21 , paragraph 39 , as contained in the annex ; 3. decides that initial focus areas of the work programme activities , referred to in paragraph 8 ( a ) ( i ) .a of the a nnex , include , but are not limit
eport on that workshop for consideration by the glasgow committee on non -market approaches at its 2nd meeting , to be held in november 2022 ; 9. decides to review the report of the glasgow committee on non- market approaches and provide guidance on the framework and the work programme , as appropr
r biennial transparency report and national inventory document in a ccordance with the outlines contained in annexes iv and v , respectively ; 3. decides that technical expert review teams will follow the technical expert review report outline contained in annex vi ; fccc/pa/cma/2021/10/add.2 3 4. 
vided in the common tabular format may be further complemented by other for mats in a party ’ s biennial transparency report , as applicable ; 5. decides that those developing country parties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities may , when reporting on a provision for which they h
inventory software , to the extent possible , on integrat ing the reporting tools into their national greenhouse gas inventory arrangements ; 17. decides that , if the final version of the reporting tool for common reporting tables for inventory information is not available within the time frame re
the national inventory report after 31 december 2024 , with a delay not exceeding the delay in t he availability of the reporting tool ; 18. also decides that , if the reporting tools for common tabular formats for the information reported pursuant to decision 18/cma.1 , annex , chapters iii , v an
omprehensive training to all parties on using the common reporting tables a nd common tabular formats and the corresponding reporting tools ; 42. decides to consider at its fourth session and at each session thereafter an item on “ reporting and review pursuant to article 13 of the paris agreement 
eement,3 in particular the technical paper and webinar4 on the topic , and the engagement of parties and non -party stakeholders in the work ; 2. decides to establish and launch a comprehensive two -year glasgow –sharm el -sheikh work programme on the global goal on adaptation ; 3. also decides tha
 2. decides to establish and launch a comprehensive two -year glasgow –sharm el -sheikh work programme on the global goal on adaptation ; 3. also decides that implementation of the work prog ramme will start immediately after the third session of the conference of the parties serving as the meeting
e document fccc/sb/2021/6 , paras . 32–35 and 85 –86 . 4 see https : //unfccc.int/event/ac -webinar -gga . fccc/pa/cma/2021/10/add.3 5 4. further decides that the work programme will be carried out jointly by the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice and the subsidiary body for im
priate , and other relevant constituted bodies and experts ; 6. requests the secretariat to support the implementation of the work programme ; 7. decides that the objectives of the work programme should be to , inter alia : ( a ) enable the full and sustained implementation of the paris agreement ,
k programme should refle ct the country -driven nature of adaptation and avoid creating any additional burden for developing country parties ; 9. decides that activities carried out under the work programme should build on the work of the adaptation committee related to the global goal on adaptatio
ers , relevant constituted bodies under the convention and the paris agreement , organizations , experts and practitioners , as appropriate ; 12. decides that four workshops should be conducted per year , with the support of the secretariat and under the guidance of the chairs of the subsidiary bod
nce of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement , recalling decision s 1/cp.21 , paragraph 53 , and 14/cma.1 , 1. decides to initiate the deliberations on setting a new collective quantified goal and to conduct the deliberations in an open , inclusive and transparent
olitical deliberations providing guidance to the technical work to be conducted and the technical work informing the political deliberations ; 3. decides to establish an ad hoc work programme f or 2022 –2024 under the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agre
ons agencies , climate finance experts , academi a , and private sector and civil society actors with a view to informing the work programme ; 5. decides to conduct four technical expert dialogues per year as part of the ad hoc work programme , with one of these dialogues to be held in conjunction 
d to in paragraph 5 above , for consideration by the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement ; 10. decides to convene high- level ministerial dialogues starting in 2022 and ending in 2024 , ensuring effective political engagement and open , meaningful 
endations , for consideration by the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at that session ; 12. decides to continue its deliberations on setting a new collective quantified goal at its fourth , fifth and sixth sessions , taking stock o f the progres
he high-level ministerial dialogues ; 14. requests the secretariat to assist the co -chairs of the ad hoc work programme in implementing it ; 15. decides that the new collec tive quantified goal aims at contributing to accelerating the achievement of article 2 of the paris agreement of holding the 
. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources ; 22. decides to conc lude its deliberations by setting the new collective quantified goal in 2024 . 12th plenary meeting 13 november 2021fccc/pa/cma/2021/10/a
ticularly those that are based in developing count ries , may need support , including financial support , in providing technical assistance ; 9. decides that the santiago network is to have the following functions : ( a ) contributing to the effective implementation of the functions 6 of the warsa
 damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change , including urgent and timely responses to the impacts of climate change ; 10. also decides to further develop the institutional arrangements of the santiago network by : ( a ) inviting parties and relevant organizations to submit via th
n -party observers to observe , subject to paragraphs 13– 14 of the modalities and procedures , unless the fccc/pa/cma/2021/10/add.3 59 committee decides to hold the meeting or a part or parts thereof in a closed session in order to , inter alia , protect the confidentiality of information received
 which would be applied mutatis mutandis to the committee . 4. parties and admitted non- party observers shall leave the meeting if the committee decides to hold a part of the meeting in a closed session . 5. the parts of the meeting that are open to observers shall be recorded and the recording ma
ting that are open to observers shall be recorded and the recording made available on the unfccc website after the meeting , unless the committee decides otherwise . 6. if , in the course of a meeting , a member or alternate member believes that an observer has violated paragraph 3 of this rule , i
 ) the same greenhouse gases , sectors and source categories as those used to calculate the assigned amount for the second commitment period ; 3. decides that , for a party included in annex i undergoing the process of transition to a market economy and without a quantified emission limitati on or 
mp.7 , 4/cmp.7 , 1/cmp.8 and 2/cmp.8 , being aware of decisions 11/cmp.1 , 13/cmp.1 , 15/cmp.1 , 16/cmp.1 , 18/cmp.1 , 19/cmp.1 and 27/cmp.1 , 1. decides that , for the purpose of the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol and pending the entry into force of the doha amendment , contained i
nto force of the doha amendment , such references shall be read as references to the relevant articles of the kyoto protocol as amended ; 2. also decides that , for the purpose of the second commitment period , decisions 13/cmp.1 , 15/cmp.1 , 18/cmp.1 and 19/cmp.1 shall apply mutatis mutandis , exc
e 1 of the 2006 ipcc guidelines ; ( f ) all references to decision 16/cmp.1 shall be read as references to decision 2/cmp.7 and 6/cmp.9 ; 6. also decides that , for the purpose of the second commitment period , paragraph 3 ( b ) of decision 15/cmp.1 shall be replaced by the following paragraph : 3 
isted in annex a to the kyoto protocol , in the most recent of the party ’ s re viewed inventories in which the source was estimated ; 7. further decides that decisions 14/cmp.1 , 17/cmp.1 and 6/cmp.3 shall not apply for the purpose of the second commitment period ; 8. decides that parties included
stimated ; 7. further decides that decisions 14/cmp.1 , 17/cmp.1 and 6/cmp.3 shall not apply for the purpose of the second commitment period ; 8. decides that parties included in annex i without quantified emission limit ation and reduction commitments for the second commitment period shall provide
of the parties to that agreement exceed their assigned amounts , be responsible for its own level of emissions as set out in that agreement ; 11. decides that each of the parties included in annex i that have reached an agreement to fulfil their commitments under article 3 of the kyoto protocol joi
ions for the second commitment period contained in annex ii for reporting in accordance with paragraph 11 of the annex to decision 15/cmp.1 ; 13. decides that each p arty included in annex i with a quantified emission limitation or reduction commitment inscribed in the third column of annex b shall
e “ reported year ” ( e.g . in the 2017 standard electronic format submission , the “ reported year ” will be the 2016 calendar year ) ; 14. also decides that a party included in annex i without a quantified emission limitation or reduction commitment inscribed in the third column of annex b shall 
 to this decision , if its registry is connected to the international transaction log at any time during the relevant calendar year ; 15. further decides that , for the second commit ment period , each party included in annex i with a quantified emission limitation or reduction commitment inscribed
d in conjunction with its first annual inventory submission for that commitment period , in accordance with paragraph 5 of decision 2/cmp.8 ; 16. decides that the contribution of assigned amount units as a share of proceeds shall be executed in the most t ransparent manner , taking into account env
of proceeds shall be executed in the most t ransparent manner , taking into account environmental integrity at the international level ; 17. also decides that , where a party included in annex i undertakes a corrective transaction to reflect a correction to the compilation and accounting database a
in accordance with article 8 of the kyoto protocol and the resolution of any questions of implementation ; fccc/kp/cmp/2015/8/add.1 8 18. further decides to extend the code of practice for the treatment of confidential information for the review of inventories under article 8 of the kyoto protocol 
3/cmp.1 , 15/cmp.1 , 16/cmp.1 , 18/cmp.1 , 19/cmp.1 , 20/cmp.1 , 21/cmp.1 , 22/cmp.1 , 23/cmp.1 , 24/cmp.1 , 25/cmp.1 , 27/cmp.1 and 8/cmp.5 , 1. decides that , for the purpose of the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol and pending the entry into force of the doha amendment , contained i
 into force of the doha amendment such references shall be read as references to the relevant articles of the kyoto protocol as amended ; 2. also decides that , for the purpose of the second commitment period , decisions 20/cmp.1 and 22/cmp.1 shall apply mutatis mutandis , except where otherwise sp
1 and 22/cmp.1 shall apply mutatis mutandis , except where otherwise specified in decisions 1/cmp.8 and 2/cmp.8 and in this decision ; 3. further decides that , for the purpose of the second commitment period , the following changes shall apply to decisions 18/cmp.1 , 19/cmp.1 , 20/cmp.1 and 22/cmp
 kyoto protocol . 2. for the purpose of the second commitment period , paragraph 11 of decision 20/cmp.1 shall be replaced by the following : 11. decides that an annex i party may submit a revised estimate for a part of its inventory of a year of the commitm ent period to which an adjustment was pr
8 . 3. for the purpose of the secon d commitment period , the following paragraph shall be inserted after paragraph 11 of decision 20/cmp.1 : 12. decides that parties included in annex i without quantified emission limitation and reduction commitments for the second commitment period may subm it a 
s underrepresented in the clean development mechanism , taking into account paragraph 28 below ; iii . baseline and monitoring m ethodologies 12. decides to allow the submission of a request for the revision of a baseline and monitoring methodology without a draft project or programme design docume
onal transaction log , 1. adopts the scale of fees for the international transaction log for the biennium 2016 – 2017 contained in the annex ; 2. decides that fees for the international transaction log paid by a party for the biennium 2016 –2017 shall be calculated by multiplying the scale of fees 
 accordance with paragraph 2 above , as early as possible and at least four months in advance of the relevant calendar year , where possible ; 4. decides that , if a party connects to the international transaction log for the first time or reconnects to it following disconnection during the bienniu
the table contained in the annex , shall be made equal to 130 per cent of their kyoto protocol adjusted scale for the relevant biennium ; 5. also decides that fees paid by a party that connects to the inte rnational transaction log for the first time shall be deducted from the resource requirement 
me shall be deducted from the resource requirement for activities relating to the international transaction log in the next biennium ; 6. further decides that fees paid by a party that connects to the international transaction log for the first time or , following disconnection , reconnects to it d
 date of connection or reconnection of its registry and the end of the biennium , except for the period for which the fees were already paid ; 7. decides that , where a party disconnects during the biennium 2016 –2017 , the party shall cover the fees for the full year in which the disconnection too
option by the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol at its twelfth session ( november 2016 ) ; 2. decides that the 5th meeting of the durban forum , to be held during the forty -fourth session of the subsidiary bod y for implementation , will explore 
biennium 2016 – 2017 , amounting to eur 5,35 1,356 for the purposes specified in the proposed budget for the international transaction log ; 5 6. decides to maintain the level of the working capital reserve at 8.3 per cent of the estimated expenditure for the trust fund for the international transa
 ) the same greenhouse gases , sectors and source categories as those used to calculate the assigned amount for the second commitment period ; 3. decides that , for a party included in annex i undergoing the process of transition to a market economy and without a quantified emission limitati on or 
mp.7 , 4/cmp.7 , 1/cmp.8 and 2/cmp.8 , being aware of decisions 11/cmp.1 , 13/cmp.1 , 15/cmp.1 , 16/cmp.1 , 18/cmp.1 , 19/cmp.1 and 27/cmp.1 , 1. decides that , for the purpose of the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol and pending the entry into force of the doha amendment , contained i
nto force of the doha amendment , such references shall be read as references to the relevant articles of the kyoto protocol as amended ; 2. also decides that , for the purpose of the second commitment period , decisions 13/cmp.1 , 15/cmp.1 , 18/cmp.1 and 19/cmp.1 shall apply mutatis mutandis , exc
e 1 of the 2006 ipcc guidelines ; ( f ) all references to decision 16/cmp.1 shall be read as references to decision 2/cmp.7 and 6/cmp.9 ; 6. also decides that , for the purpose of the second commitment period , paragraph 3 ( b ) of decision 15/cmp.1 shall be replaced by the following paragraph : 3 
isted in annex a to the kyoto protocol , in the most recent of the party ’ s re viewed inventories in which the source was estimated ; 7. further decides that decisions 14/cmp.1 , 17/cmp.1 and 6/cmp.3 shall not apply for the purpose of the second commitment period ; 8. decides that parties included
stimated ; 7. further decides that decisions 14/cmp.1 , 17/cmp.1 and 6/cmp.3 shall not apply for the purpose of the second commitment period ; 8. decides that parties included in annex i without quantified emission limit ation and reduction commitments for the second commitment period shall provide
of the parties to that agreement exceed their assigned amounts , be responsible for its own level of emissions as set out in that agreement ; 11. decides that each of the parties included in annex i that have reached an agreement to fulfil their commitments under article 3 of the kyoto protocol joi
ions for the second commitment period contained in annex ii for reporting in accordance with paragraph 11 of the annex to decision 15/cmp.1 ; 13. decides that each p arty included in annex i with a quantified emission limitation or reduction commitment inscribed in the third column of annex b shall
e “ reported year ” ( e.g . in the 2017 standard electronic format submission , the “ reported year ” will be the 2016 calendar year ) ; 14. also decides that a party included in annex i without a quantified emission limitation or reduction commitment inscribed in the third column of annex b shall 
 to this decision , if its registry is connected to the international transaction log at any time during the relevant calendar year ; 15. further decides that , for the second commit ment period , each party included in annex i with a quantified emission limitation or reduction commitment inscribed
d in conjunction with its first annual inventory submission for that commitment period , in accordance with paragraph 5 of decision 2/cmp.8 ; 16. decides that the contribution of assigned amount units as a share of proceeds shall be executed in the most t ransparent manner , taking into account env
of proceeds shall be executed in the most t ransparent manner , taking into account environmental integrity at the international level ; 17. also decides that , where a party included in annex i undertakes a corrective transaction to reflect a correction to the compilation and accounting database a
in accordance with article 8 of the kyoto protocol and the resolution of any questions of implementation ; fccc/kp/cmp/2015/8/add.1 8 18. further decides to extend the code of practice for the treatment of confidential information for the review of inventories under article 8 of the kyoto protocol 
3/cmp.1 , 15/cmp.1 , 16/cmp.1 , 18/cmp.1 , 19/cmp.1 , 20/cmp.1 , 21/cmp.1 , 22/cmp.1 , 23/cmp.1 , 24/cmp.1 , 25/cmp.1 , 27/cmp.1 and 8/cmp.5 , 1. decides that , for the purpose of the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol and pending the entry into force of the doha amendment , contained i
 into force of the doha amendment such references shall be read as references to the relevant articles of the kyoto protocol as amended ; 2. also decides that , for the purpose of the second commitment period , decisions 20/cmp.1 and 22/cmp.1 shall apply mutatis mutandis , except where otherwise sp
1 and 22/cmp.1 shall apply mutatis mutandis , except where otherwise specified in decisions 1/cmp.8 and 2/cmp.8 and in this decision ; 3. further decides that , for the purpose of the second commitment period , the following changes shall apply to decisions 18/cmp.1 , 19/cmp.1 , 20/cmp.1 and 22/cmp
 kyoto protocol . 2. for the purpose of the second commitment period , paragraph 11 of decision 20/cmp.1 shall be replaced by the following : 11. decides that an annex i party may submit a revised estimate for a part of its inventory of a year of the commitm ent period to which an adjustment was pr
8 . 3. for the purpose of the secon d commitment period , the following paragraph shall be inserted after paragraph 11 of decision 20/cmp.1 : 12. decides that parties included in annex i without quantified emission limitation and reduction commitments for the second commitment period may subm it a 
s underrepresented in the clean development mechanism , taking into account paragraph 28 below ; iii . baseline and monitoring m ethodologies 12. decides to allow the submission of a request for the revision of a baseline and monitoring methodology without a draft project or programme design docume
onal transaction log , 1. adopts the scale of fees for the international transaction log for the biennium 2016 – 2017 contained in the annex ; 2. decides that fees for the international transaction log paid by a party for the biennium 2016 –2017 shall be calculated by multiplying the scale of fees 
 accordance with paragraph 2 above , as early as possible and at least four months in advance of the relevant calendar year , where possible ; 4. decides that , if a party connects to the international transaction log for the first time or reconnects to it following disconnection during the bienniu
the table contained in the annex , shall be made equal to 130 per cent of their kyoto protocol adjusted scale for the relevant biennium ; 5. also decides that fees paid by a party that connects to the inte rnational transaction log for the first time shall be deducted from the resource requirement 
me shall be deducted from the resource requirement for activities relating to the international transaction log in the next biennium ; 6. further decides that fees paid by a party that connects to the international transaction log for the first time or , following disconnection , reconnects to it d
 date of connection or reconnection of its registry and the end of the biennium , except for the period for which the fees were already paid ; 7. decides that , where a party disconnects during the biennium 2016 –2017 , the party shall cover the fees for the full year in which the disconnection too
option by the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol at its twelfth session ( november 2016 ) ; 2. decides that the 5th meeting of the durban forum , to be held during the forty -fourth session of the subsidiary bod y for implementation , will explore 
biennium 2016 – 2017 , amounting to eur 5,35 1,356 for the purposes specified in the proposed budget for the international transaction log ; 5 6. decides to maintain the level of the working capital reserve at 8.3 per cent of the estimated expenditure for the trust fund for the international transa
 the three -year revie w cycle fo r the adaptation fund , also recalling decisions 2/cmp.9 and 2/cmp.10 , further recalling decision 1/cp.21 , 1. decides that the third review of the adaptation fund will be undertaken in accordance with the terms of reference contained in the annex ; 2. requests th
hs 59 and 60 of decision 1/cp.21 and paragraphs 8 and 9 of decision 1/cmp.11 may not align ; 1 fccc/kp/cmp/2016/2 . fccc/kp/cmp/2016/8/add.1 6 2. decides to renew the interim institutional arrangements with the global environment facility as the interim secretariat of the adaptation fund board for 
onment facility as the interim secretariat of the adaptation fund board for an additional three years , from 30 may 2017 to 30 may 2020 ; 3. also decides to restate the terms and conditions of the services to be provided by the international bank for reconstruction and development ( the world bank 
n particular , the implications for the recipients of cdm loan scheme funds with regard to potential difficulties in the repayment of loans ; 14. decides that the implementing agency of the cdm loan scheme , after consultation with the secretariat , may write off amounts disbursed under individual 
 to progress through the project cycle , inc luding making adjustments to loan agreement terms , if appropriate ; fccc/kp/cmp/2016/8/add.1 10 16. decides that the secretariat should not seek a new implementing agency after the expiry of the term of the current contract as required by decision 3/cmp
ng as is needed , making necessary adjustments to ensure the efficient , cost -effective and transparent functioning of joint implementation ; 6. decides that , in order to continue the prudent management of resources , the joint implementation supervisory committee shall meet at least once each ye
 implementation supervisory committee may conduct its meetings using virtual participation7 and electronic consultation and decision -making ; 8. decides that , with regard to the meetings referred to in the rules of procedure of the joint implementation supervisory committee , the virtual particip
zm7 k843e/view > . fccc/kp/cmp/2016/8/add.1 13 meetings of the joint implementation supervisory committee are meetings of the committee ; 9. also decides that electronic submission of the signed oath of service by members and alternates of the joint implementation supervisory committee is sufficien
ant to decision 6/cmp.8 , paragraphs 14 and 15 , and subsequent decisions , in relation to the review of the joint implementation guidelines ; 2. decides to concl ude its review of the joint implementation guidelines without adopting any revisions to them ; 3. notes that the draft conclusions of th
 to continue incorporating into their work programmes the scope of capacity -building needs as contained in decisions 29/ cmp .1 and 6/cmp.4 ; 6. decides to concl ude the third comprehensive review of the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in developing countries under the kyoto
mation on board meetings and other relevant developments that have taken place after the publication of the mai n part of the annual report ; 12. decides that the adaptation fund shall serve the paris agreement subject to and consistent with decisions to be taken at the third part of the first sess
 parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement ( december 2018 ) , in line with decision 1/cma.1 , paragraph 11 ; 13. also decides that it will consider whether the adaptation fund shall serve the paris agreement exclusively , under the guidance of and accountable to the conf
ontinue to provide support for capacity -building activities in countries with econom ies in transition that are currently receiving support ; 4. decides to conclude the fourth review and requests the subsidiary body for implementation , at its fifty -second session ( june 2020 ) , to initiate the 
ennium 2018 – 2019 , amounting to eur 5,204,520 , for the purposes specified in the proposed budget for the international transac tion log ; 1 2. decides to maintain the level of the working capital reserve at 8.3 per cent of the estimated expenditure for the trust fund for the international transa
the annual report ; 8. adopts the scale of fees for the international transaction log for the biennium 2018 – 2019 as contained in the annex ; 9. decides that fees for the international transaction log paid by a party for the biennium 2018 –2019 shall be calculated by multiplying the scale of fees 
accordance with paragraph 9 above , as early as possible and at least four months in advance of the relevant calendar year , where possible ; 11. decides that , if a party connects to the international transa ction log for the first time or reconnects to it , the scale of fees for that party shall 
e table contained in the annex , shall be made equal to 130 per cent of their kyoto protocol adjusted sc ale for the relevant biennium ; 12. also decides that fees paid by a party that connects to the international transaction log for the first time or reconnects to it shall be deducted from the re
 shall be deducted from the resource requirement for activities relating to the international tra nsaction log in the next biennium ; 13. further decides that fees paid by a party that connects to the international transaction log for the first time or reconnects to it during the biennium 2018 –201
ate of co nnection or reconnection of its registry and the end of the biennium , except for the period for which the fees were already paid ; 14. decides that , where a party disconnects during the biennium 2018 –2019 , the party shall cover the fees for the full year in whi ch the disconnection to
iennium and the party does not reconnect in the second year of the biennium , fees for the second year of the biennium shall not apply ; 15. also decides that , where a party disconnected prior to the biennium 2018 –2019 , the fees shall not apply until the party reconnects to the international tra
 no longer serve the kyoto protocol once the share of proceeds under article 6 , paragraph 4 , of the paris agreement becomes available ; 3. also decides , pursuant to paragraph 2 above , that the adaptation fund shall continue to receive the share of proceeds , if available , from activities under
 shall continue to receive the share of proceeds , if available , from activities under articles 6 , 12 and 17 of the kyoto protocol ; 4. further decides to ensure that developing country parties and developed country parties that a re parties to the paris agreement are eligible for membership on t
ienniu m 2020 –2021 , amounting to eur 4,610,775 , for the purposes specified in the proposed budget for the international transaction log ; 1 2. decides to maintain the level of the working capital reserve at 8.3 per cent of the estimated expenditure for the trust fund for the international transa
he annual report ; 8. adopts the scale of fees for the international transaction log for the bienn ium 2020 – 2021 as contained in the annex ; 9. decides that fees for the international transaction log paid by a party for t he biennium 2020 –2021 shall be calculated by multiplying the scale of fees
accordance with paragraph 9 above , as early as possible and at least four months in advance of the relevant calendar year , where possible ; 11. decides that , if a party connects to the international transaction log for the first time or reconnects to it , the scale of fees for that party shall b
e table contained in the annex , shall be made equal to 130 per cent of their kyoto protocol adjusted scale for the releva nt biennium ; 12. also decides that fees paid by a party that connects to the international transaction log for the first t ime or reconnects to it shall be deducted from the r
 shall be deducted from the resource requirement for activities relating to the international transaction log in th e next biennium ; 13. further decides that fees paid by a party that connects to the international transaction log for the first time or reconnects to it during the biennium 2020 –202
ennium and the party does not rec onnect in the second year of the biennium , fees for the second year of the biennium shall not apply ; 15. also decides that , where a party disc onnected prior to the biennium 2020 –2021 , the fees shall not apply until the party reconnects to the international tr
y matters 6. also takes note of the information contained in the note by t he secretariat on the revised indicative contributions for 2019 ; 3 7. decides that the indicative scale of contributions contained in the annex shall also be applicable for 2019 , covering 15 per cent of the contrib utions 
rovide guidance on the functioning of the clean development mechanism beyond the end of the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol ; 3 7. decides that requests for registration , renewal of credi ting period and issuance of certified emission reductions for project activities , as well as t
upervises the article 6 , paragraph 4 , mechanism as designated by decision 3/cma.3 ( hereinafter referred to as the supervisory body ) ; 8. also decides to conclude its consideration of the following matters related to the clean development mechanism , which have been referred to the subsidiary bo
e clean development mechanism to the supervisory body to facilitate the expedited implementation of the article 6 , paragraph 4 , mechanism ; 12. decides that any registered clean development mechanism project activities and programmes of activities that have transitioned to the article 6 , paragra
 accorded provisional status under the temporary measures but have not subsequently transitioned to the article 6 , paragraph 4 , mechanism ; 15. decides that the executive board may continue receiving and processing the r elevant requests and submissions under the temporary measures until the date
ticle 6 , paragr aph 4 , mechanism becomes operational , as may be specified by the supervisory body ; iv . management of financial resources 16. decides to discontinue the allocation , as set out in decision 3/cmp.6 , of any interest accruing on the trust fund for the clean development mechanism ,
an development mechanism , given the administrative and budgetary closure of the cdm loan scheme in 2020 pursuant to decision 3/cmp.12 ; 17. also decides to allocate the remaining balance of the cdm loan scheme and any interest accruing on the trust fund for the clean development mechanism to the t
an development mechanism to the trust fund for supplementary activities for capacity -building to enhance regional climate action ; 9 18. further decides to authorize the transfer of usd 30 million from the trust fund for the clean development mechanism to the trust fund for supplementary activitie
ntary activities for the work of the supervisory body to facilitate the expedited implementation of the article 6 , paragraph 4 , mechanism ; 19. decides to authorize the transfer of usd 10 million from the trust fund for the clean development mechanism to the trust fund for supplementary activitie
chanism project activities and programmes of activities to the article 6 , paragraph 4 , mechanism if they are eligible for transition ; 20. also decides to authorize the transfer of usd 20 million from the trust fund for the clean development mechanism to the adaptation fund ; 21. invites the conf
ling decisions 1/cmp.3 , 6/cmp.6 , 2/cmp.9 , 2/cmp.10 and 1/cmp.14 , also recalling decision 1/cp.21 , further recalling decision 13/cma . 1 , 1. decides that the fourth review of the adaptation fund will be undertaken in accordance with decision 1/cmp.3 , paragraph 33 , and the terms of reference 
capacity - building activities in countries with economies in transition to the secretariat for inclusion on the capacity -building portal ; 1 7. decides to conclude the fifth review of the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in countries with economies in transition under the ky
e biennium 2022 –2023 , amounting to eur 3,851,948 for the purposes specified in the proposed budget for the international transaction log ; 1 2. decides to maintain the level of the working capital reserve at 8.3 per cent of the estimated expenditure for the trust fund for the international transa
f the annual report ; 8. adopts the scale of fees for the i nternational transaction log for the biennium 2022 – 2023 contained in the annex ; 9. decides that fees for the international transaction log paid by a party for the biennium 2022 –2023 shall be calculated by multiplying the scale of fees 
021/ 8/add.1 32 paragraph 9 above , as early as possible and at least four months in advance of the relevant calendar year , where possible ; 11. decides that , if a party connects to the international transaction log for the first time or reconnects to it , the scale of fees for that party shall b
e table contained in the annex , shall be made equ al to 130 per cent of their kyoto protocol adjusted scale for the relevant biennium ; 12. also decides that fees paid by a party that connects to the international transaction log for the first time or reconnects to it shall be deducted from the re
 shall be deducted from the resource requir ement for activities relating to the international transaction log in the next biennium ; 13. further decides that fees paid by a party that connects to the international transaction log for the first time or reconnects to it during the biennium 2022 –202
date of connection or reconnection of its registry and the end of the biennium , except for the period for which the fees were already paid ; 14. decides that , where a party disconnects during the biennium 2022 –2023 , t he party shall cover the fees for the full year in which the disconnection to
ennium and the party does not reconnect in the second year of the biennium , fees for the second yea r of the biennium shall not apply ; 15. also decides that , where a party disconnected prior to the biennium 2022 –2023 , the fees shall not apply until the party reconnects to the international tra
projects ; 26. requests the secretariat to enhance follow -up on parties ’ outstanding core contributions , including through payment plans ; 27. decides to keep the level of the working capital res erve at 8.3 per cent of annual total expenditure ( in line with the unfccc financial procedures ) ; 
the compliance of each party included in annex i with its commitments under article 3 , paragraph 1 bis , of the kyoto protocol , as amended , 1. decides that the expert review process under article 8 of the kyoto protocol for the final year of the second commitment period shall be completed by 1 j
protocol for the final year of the second commitment period shall be completed by 1 june 2023 subject to the availability of resources , and also decides that , if the expert review process is not compl eted by that date , it shall continue , and the date of completion shall be the date of publicat
ommitment period ; 2. urges parties , expert review teams and the secretariat to expedite t he review process in order to meet that deadline ; 3. decides that the report upon expiration of the additional period for fulfilling commitments for the second commitment period , covering the information r
ond commitment period ( the tr ue-up period ) ; 1 as defined in article 1 , para . 7 , of the kyoto protocol . fccc/kp/cmp/2022/9/add.1 3 4. also decides that the secretariat shall produce in electronic format , on 30 july 2023 and every four weeks thereafter until the month of completion of the tr
 commitment period ; ( c ) total quantity of units held in party holding accounts , cancellation accounts and the retirement account ; 5. further decides that this information should include the total quantity of aggregated holdings in the clean development mechanism registry ; 6. decides that info
. further decides that this information should include the total quantity of aggregated holdings in the clean development mechanism registry ; 6. decides that information on the review processes remaining to be completed should be provided by the secretariat together with the information referred t
4 , mechanism , referred to in chapter vi ( mechanism registry ) of the annex to decision 3/cma.3 ( eligible certified emission reductions ) ; 9. decides that the transfer of eligible certified emission reductions , in accordance with paragraph 75 ( b ) of the annex to decision 3/cma.3 , shall be e
14 respectively ; 3. commends the work undertaken by the joint implementation supervisory committee since its 1st meeting , in february 2006 ; 4. decides to terminate the joint implementation supervisory committee established by decision 9/cmp.1 , paragraph 3 ; 5. requests the secretariat to take t
 the revised scales of indicative contributions for 2022 –2023 ; 6 11. adopts the indicative s cale of contributions contained in the annex ; 12. decides that the scale of contributions contained in the annex shall also be applicable for 2022 , covering 11 per cent of the contributions specified in
e private sector , financial institutions , cities and other subnational authorities , local commu nities and indigenous peoples , i. adoption 1. decides to adopt the paris agreement under the united nations framework convention on climate change ( hereinafter referred to as “ the agreement ” ) as 
the ad hoc working group on the durban platform for enhanced action , in accordance with decision 1/cp.17 , paragraph 4 , has been completed ; 7. decides to establish the ad hoc working group on the paris agre ement under the same arrangement , mutatis mutandis , as those concerning the election of
s , as those concerning the election of officers to the bureau of the ad hoc working group on the durban platform for enhanced action ; 1 8. also decides that the ad hoc working group on the paris agreement shall prepare for the entry into force of the agreement and for the convening of the first s
for the convening of the first session of the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement ; 9. further decides to oversee the implementation of the work programme resulting from the relevant requests contained in this decision ; 10. requests the ad hoc wor
and to complete its work by the first session of the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement ; 11. decides that the ad hoc working group on the paris agreement shall hold its sessions starting in 2016 in con junction with the sessions of the convention
nally determined contributions communic ated by parties pursuant to decision 1/cp.20 by 4 april 2016 and to make it available by 2 may 2016 ; 20. decides to convene a facilitative dialogue among parties in 2018 to take stock of the collective efforts of parties in relation to progress towards the l
na lly determined contribution prior to joining the agreement , that party shall be considered to have satisfied this provision unless that party decides otherwise ; 23. requests those parties whose intended nationally determined contribution pursuant to decision 1 /cp.20 contains a time frame up t
icate or update by 2020 these contributions and to do so every five years thereafter pursuant to article 4 , paragraph 9 , of the agreement ; 25. decides that parties shal l submit to the secretariat their nationally determined contributions referred to in article 4 of the agreement at least 9 to 1
ntinue to include it ; ( d ) parties shall provide an explanation of why any categories of anthropogenic emissions or removals are excluded ; 32. decides that part ies shall apply the guidance referred to in paragraph 31 above to the second and subsequent nationally determined contributions and tha
ationally determined contributions and that parties may elect to apply such guidance to their first nationally determined contribution ; 33. also decides that the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures , under the subsidiary bodies , shall continue , and shall serve the agre
he impact of the implementation of response measures , under the subsidiary bodies , shall continue , and shall serve the agreement ; 34. further decides that the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice and the subsidiary body for implementati on shall recommend , for consideration 
si ons 1/cp.16 and 5/cp.17 , and for the subsequent implementation of policies , projects and programmes identified by them ; loss and damage 47. decides on the continuation of the warsaw international mechanism for loss and damage associated with climate change im pacts , following the review in 2
ts annual report ; 51. agrees that article 8 of the agreement does not involve or provide a basis for any liability or compensation ; finance 52. decides that , in the implementation of the agreement , financial resources provided to developing country parties should enhance the implementation of t
es pect to both mitigation and adaptation to contribute to the achievement of the purpose of the agreement as defined in its article 2 ; 53. also decides that , in accordance with article 9 , paragraph 3 , of the agreement , developed countries intend to continue the ir existing collective mobiliza
l sources , such as the green climate fund , and alternative sources in accordance with relevant decisions by the conference of the parties ; 55. decides to initiate , at its twenty -second session , a process to identify the information to be provided by parties , in accordance with article 9 , pa
ration and adoption by the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at its first session ; 56. also decides to ensure that the provision of information in accordance with article 9 , paragraph 7 , of the agreement shall be undertaken in accordance with 
nsideration and adoption by the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at its first session ; 58. decides that the green climate fund and the global environment facility , the entities entrusted with the operation of the financial mechanism of the con
 on the policies , programme priorities and eligibility criteria related to the agreement for transmission by the conference of the parties ; 62. decides that the guidance to the entities entrusted with the operations of the financial mechanism of the convention in relevant decisions of the confere
he conference of the parties , including those agreed before adoption of the agreement , shall apply mutatis mutandis to the agreement ; 63. also decides that the standing committee on finance shall serve the agreement in line with its functions and responsibilities established under the conference
committee on guidance on enhanced implementation of the results of technology needs assessments as contained in document fccc/sb/2015/inf.3 ; 66. decides to strengthen the technology mechanism and requests the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network , in support
enabling environments for and the addressing of barriers to the development and transfer of socially and environmentally sound technologies ; 68. decides that the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network shall report to the conference of the parties serving as th
reement , for consideration and adoption by the conference of the parties at its twenty -fifth session ( november 2019 ) ; capacity -building 71. decides to establish the paris committee on capacity -building whose aim will be to address gaps and needs , both current and emerging , in implementing 
capacity -building efforts , including with regard to coherence and coordination in capacity -building activities under the convention ; 72. also decides that the paris committee on capacity -building will manage and oversee the workplan referred to in paragraph 73 below ; fccc/cp/2015/10/add.1 11 
ntion ; ( i ) providi ng guidance to the secretariat on the maintenance and further development of the web -based capacity -building portal ; 74. decides that the paris committee on capacity -building will annually focus on an area or theme related to enhanced technical exchange on capacity -buildi
n paragraph 77 above into a miscellaneous document for consideration by the subsidiary body for implementation at its forty -fourth session ; 79. decides that the inputs to the paris committee on capacity -building will include , inter alia , submissions , the outcome of the third comprehensive rev
e reports available at the sessions of the subsidiary body for implementation coinciding with the sessions of the conference of the parties ; 81. decides , at its twenty -fifth session , to review the progress , need for extension , the effectiveness and enhancement of the paris committee on capaci
ess , public participation and public access to information so as to enhance actions under the agreement ; transparency of action and support 84. decides to establish a capacity -building initiative for transparency in order to build institutional and technical capacity , both pre - and post -2020 
ry parties , upon request , in meeting enhanced transparency requirements as defined in article 13 of the agreement in a timely manner ; 85. also decides that the capacity -building initiative for transparency will aim : ( a ) to strengthen national institutions for transparency -related activities
t of the global environment facility and future replenishment cycles , to complement existing support under the global environment facility ; 87. decides to assess the implementation of the capacity -building initiative for transparency in the context of the seventh revi ew of the financial mechani
n , development and implementation of the capacity -building initiative for transparency referred to in paragraph 84 above starting in 2016 ; 89. decides that , in accordance with article 13 , paragraph 2 , of the agreement , developing country parties shall be provided flexibility in the implement
e such flexibilities shall be reflected in the development of modalities , procedures and guidelines referred to in paragraph 91 below ; 90. also decides that all parties , except for the least developed country parties and small island developing states , shall submit the informatio n referred to 
referred to in paragraph 91 above to future sessions of the conference of the parties , and tha t this work be concluded no later than 2018 ; 97. decides that the modalities , procedures and guidelines developed under paragraph 91 above shall be applied upon the entry into force of the paris agreem
ities , procedures and guidelines developed under paragraph 91 above shall be applied upon the entry into force of the paris agreement ; 98. also decides that the modalities , procedures and guidelines of this transparency framework shall build upon and eventually supersede the measurement , report
ting of the parties to the p aris agreement for consideration and adoption at its first session ; facilitating implementation and compliance 102. decides that the committee referred to in article 15 , paragraph 2 , of the agreement shall consist of 12 members with recognized competence in rel evant
 months in advance of each session of the conference of the parties as input for the high -level event referred to i n paragraph 120 below ; 112. decides that the process referred to in paragraph 109 above should be organized jointly by the subsidiary body for implementation and the subsidiary body
r implementation and the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice and should take place on an ongoing basis until 2020 ; 113. also decides to conduct in 2017 an assessment of the process referred to in paragraph 109 above so as to improve its effectiveness ; 114. resolves to enhance 
gnificantly increasing adaptation finance from current levels and to further provide appropriate technology and capacity -building support ; 115. decides to conduct a faci litative dialogue in conjunction with the twenty -second session of the conference of the parties to assess the progress in imp
vel engagement of dignitaries of parties , international organizations , international cooperative initiatives and non -party stakeholders ; 121. decides that two high -level champions shall be appointed to act on behalf of the president of the conference of the parties to facilitate through streng
e secretariat on the organization of technical expert meetings referred to in paragraph 111 ( a ) above and paragraph 129 ( a ) below ; 122. also decides that the high -level champions referred to in paragraph 121 above should normally serve for a term of two years , with their terms overlapping fo
ites all interested parties and relevant organizations to provide support for the work of the champions referred to in paragraph 121 above ; 124. decides to launch , in the period 2016 2020 , a technical examination proc ess on adaptation ; 125. also decides that the process referred to in paragra
ferred to in paragraph 121 above ; 124. decides to launch , in the period 2016 2020 , a technical examination proc ess on adaptation ; 125. also decides that the process referred to in paragraph 124 above will endeavour to identify concrete opportunities for strengthening resilience , reducing vul
 for strengthening resilience , reducing vulnerabilities and increasing the understanding and implementation of adaptation actions ; 126. further decides that the process referred to in paragraph 124 above should be organized jointly by the subsidiary body for implementation and the subsidiary body
idiary body for implementation and the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice , and conducted by the adaptation committee ; 127. decides that the process referred to in paragraph 124 above will be pursued by : ( a ) facilitating the sharing of good practices , experiences and lesso
enabling environments and enhance the provision of support for adaptation in the context of specific policies , practices and actions ; 128. also decides that the technical examination process on adaptation referred to in paragraph 124 above will take into account the process , modalities , outputs
ion , as well as options to support their implementation , information on which should be made available in a user -friendly online format ; 130. decides that in conducting the process referred to in paragraph 124 above , the adaptation committee will engage with and explore ways to take into accou
s for adaptation -related work programmes , bodies and in stitutions under the convention so as to ensure coherence and maximum value ; 131. also decides to conduct , in conjunction with the assessment referred to in paragraph 113 above , an assessment of the process referred to in paragraph 124 ab
xecutive committee ) as an important step in the operationalizat ion of this mechanism ; 2. welcomes the report of the executive committee ; 1 3. decides that , as a consequence of the late nomination of members to the executive committee in 2015 , the term of the members currently in office will e
 term of two years , and immediately before the first meeting of the executive committee in 2019 for members with a term of three years ; 4. also decides that , as a consequence of the adjustment to the terms of office of the members of the executive committee as referred to in paragraph 3 above , 
on at its forty -eighth session in its assessment of progress made in the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans ; 13. also decides that the assessment referred to in paragraph 11 above should take into account all the guiding principles of the process to formulate and impleme
tion finance ; 3. takes note with appreciation of the summary report on the in -session workshop on long-term climate finance held in 2015 ; 2 4. decides that the second biennial high -level ministerial dialogue on climate finance , to be convened in accordance with decision 3/cp.19 , will focus on
 to the conference of the parties at its twenty -second session ( november 2016 ) on the progress made in the implementation of its workplan ; 9. decides to initiate the review of the functions of the standing committee on finance referred to in decision 6/cp.20 , paragraph 23 , at the twenty -seco
as referred to in decision 2/cp.17 , paragraph 19 , contained in its report to the conference of the parties at its twenty -first sessio n ; 3 6. decides to enhance consistency and transparency through adjustments in the reporting parameters in tables 7 , 7 ( a ) and 7 ( b ) of the common tabular f
dance with the provisions contained in the annex , in time for the preparation and submission of the biennial reports of parties due in 2018 ; 8. decides that developed country parties shall use the revised electronic r eporting application , taking into account their national circumstances , when 
red expert dialogue ; 3. notes that the structured expert dialogue completed its work , as described in decision 1/cp.18 , paragraphs 86 –89 ; 4. decides , in relation to the adequacy of the long -term global goa l , and in the light of the ultimate objective of the convention , that the goal is to
crease to 1.5 °c above pre-industrial levels , recognizing that this would significantly reduce the risks and impacts of climate change ; 5. also decides that , in the light of the overall progress made towards achieving the long-term global goal , including consideration of the implem entation of 
raph 5 , has been concluded , affirming that a more focused consideration of issues is needed for improving the effectiveness of the process , 1. decides to continue and improve the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures , which shall provide a platform allowing parties to s
ilitate assessment and analysis of the impact of the implementation of response measures , with a view to recommending specific actions ; 2. also decides to focus work under the improved forum on , inter alia , the provision of concrete examples , case studies and practices in order to enhance the 
ion and transformation ; fccc/cp/2015/10/add.2 26 ( b ) just transition of the workforce , and t he creation of decent work and quality jobs ; 6. decides that the implementation of the work programme shall address the needs of all parties , in particular developing country parties , and shall be in
g at their forty - ninth sessions ( november 2018 ) , the work programme o f the improved forum , including the modalities for its operation ; 8. decides that the improved forum shall provide recommendations to the subsidiary bodies on the actions referred to in paragraph 1 above for their consider
to integrate into their work programmes and activities the lessons learned at , and the main outcomes of , the meeti ngs of the durban forum ; 9. decides that the 5th meeting of the durban forum , to be held during the forty -fourth session of the subsidiary body for implementation , will explore p
 that may contribute to the long -term sustainability of the implementation of the activities referred to in decision 1/cp.16 , paragraph 70 ; 5. decides that developing country parties seeking to receive support for the design and implementation of al ternative policy approaches , such as joint mi
ntation of the activities referred to in decision 1/cp.16 , paragraph 70 , to share information via the web platform on the unfccc website ; 1 8. decides to conclude its consideration of alternative policy approaches , such as joint mitigation and adaptation approaches for the integral and sustaina
are being addressed and respected should be provided in a way that ensures transparency , consis tency , comprehensiveness and effectiveness ; 4. decides that developing country parties should provide information on which activity or activities referred to in decision 1/cp.16 , paragraph 70 , are i
 improve the information provided in the summary of information referred to in paragraph 1 above , taking into account the stepwise approach ; 8. decides that there is no need for further guidance pursuant to decision 12/cp.17 , paragraph 6 , to ensure transparency , consistency , comprehensiveness
te the information referred to in paragraph 2 above for consideration by interested parties and relevant financing entities , as appropriate ; 5. decides that methodological issues related to non -carbon benefits resulting from the implementation of the activities referred to in decision 1/cp.16 , 
ent with the green climate fund , regional approaches to adaptation , and the implementation of the least developed countries work programme , 1. decides to extend the mandate of the least devel oped countries expert group under its current terms of reference ; 2 2. also decides that the least deve
work programme , 1. decides to extend the mandate of the least devel oped countries expert group under its current terms of reference ; 2 2. also decides that the least developed countries expert group should be mandated to provide technical guidance and advice on : ( a ) the integration of climate
er constituted bodies under the convention , including by inviting members of these bodies to participate , as appropriate , in its meetings ; 8. decides that the membership of the least developed countries exper t group should remain at 13 members ; 9. encourages the least developed countries expe
 implement national adaptation plans to its meetings , as appropriate , as a way to promote the exchange of experiences and lessons learned ; 12. decides that , in accordance with decision 7/cp.9 , paragraph 2 , new experts may be nominated to the least developed countries expert group or existing 
or groups , taking into account the goal of gender balanc e in established bodies , in accordance with decision 23/cp.18 , paragraph 2 ; 13. also decides to review , at its twenty -sixth session , the progress , need for continuation and terms of reference of the least developed countries expert gr
o adopting a decision thereon , taking into account , as appropriate , new processes and needs that may arise prior to that session ; 14. further decides on the following actions and steps necessary for the subsidiary body for implementation to init iate the re view referred to in paragraph 13 abov
the review of their 2016 greenhouse gas inventory submi ssion , ensuring that the reviews are organized in accordance with decision 13/cp.20 ; 2. decides that the expert review teams shall review identical information only once , and that t he expert review teams shall produce a separate , complete
 each year , but may replicate the same review text in both review reports concerning identical information in both years ’ inventories ; 3. also decides that the exceptional measures taken under paragraph 1 above to review the greenhouse gas invento ries for annex i parties for the years 2015 and 
ounting to eur 10,378,900 , to be added to the programme budget for the biennium 2016 –2017 in the event that the united nations general assembly decides not to provide resources for these activities in the united nations regular budget ( see table 3 ) ; 9. requests the executive secretary to repor
2016 –2017 , taking into account the programme budget and supplementary resources provided for under this decision . fccc/cp/2015/10/add.3 23 11. decides to maintain the level of the working capital reserve at 8.3 per cent of the estimated expenditure ; 12. takes note of the surplus accumulated und
e of the surplus accumulated under the trust fund for the core budget of the unfccc as at 31 december 2014 , amounting to usd 6.337 million ; 13. decides , on an exceptional basis , not to apply the last sentence of regulation 5.3 of the financial regulations and rules of the united nations ,4 whic
the conference of the parties and twelfth session of the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol 1. decides to accept with appreciation th e offer by the kingdom of morocco to host the twenty -second session of the conference of the parties and the twel
ns taking place on the saturday should be completed by midday in order to enhance the efficiency , time liness and transparency of the work ; 10. decides to adopt the following dates for the sessional periods in 2020 : ( a ) first sessional period : monday , 1 june , to thursday , 11 june ; ( b ) s
aragraphs 5 –7,2 and to forward the outcomes to the conference of the parties at its twenty -fourth session ( december 2018 ) at the latest ; 11. decides to conven e , at its twenty -third session ( november 2017 ) , a joint meeting with the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the p
 , at the second part of its first session , to review progress on the implementation of the work p rogramme under the paris agreement ; 12. also decides to conclude the work programme under the paris agreement as soon as possible and to forward the outcomes , at the latest , to the third part of t
ity to the activities in support of the paris agreement , and to seek fu rther ways to enhance its progress , effectiveness and performance ; 11. decides to review the progress , effectiveness and performance of the adaptation committee again at the twenty -seventh session of the conference of the 
port provided and received in the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans via the online questionnaire5 on nap central ; 13. decides to change the submission deadline referred to in decision 4/cp.21 , paragraph 12 ( a ) , to 4 october 2017 . 9th plenary meeting 17 november 2016
heir capabilities and the level of support provided for reporting , they should submit their first biennial update reports by december 2014 ; 12. decides that the in -session workshops on long -term climate finance in 2017 and 2018 will , with a view to scaling up climate finance for mitigation and
ng both public and private sector actors to attend them and summarizing all views expressed at the workshops in a fair and balanced ma nner ; 15. decides that the third biennial high -level ministerial dialogue on climate finance , to be convened in accordance with decision 3/cp.19 , will be inform
ng that the review of the financial mechanism should inform the replenishment processes of the operating entities of the financial mechanism , 1. decides to adopt the updated g uidelines for the sixth review of the financial mechanism contained in the annex ; 2. requests the standing committee on f
vernment of morocco , a multi - stakeholder education day to showcase and galvanize good practices in i mplementing the doha work programme ; 14. decides that efforts related to the implementation of article 6 of the convention shall be referred to as action for climate empowerment ; 15. takes note
inue for a period of five years from 2014 to 2018 , having reviewed the mandate and te rms of reference of the consultative group of experts , 1. decides that the mandate and terms of reference of the consultative group of experts on national communications from parties not included in annex i to t
the goals of gender balance and gender -responsive climate policy in response to the invitation contained in decision 18/cp.20 , paragraph 1 ; 6. decides to continue and enhance the lima work programme on gender for a period of three years as set out in paragraphs 7 –30 below and to undertake , at 
odies ; 10. invites parties to increase the representation and active participation of women in the bodies established under the convention ; 11. decides that annual in -session workshops will be held in conjunction with the sessions of the subsidiary bodies in the first s essional period of 2018 a
ecretary -general position to the level of under -secretary -general be reflected in the approved staffing table for the biennium 201 6–2017 ; 2. decides that any additional costs resulting from the approval in paragraph 1 above and the upgrading of a d -2 position will be absorbed from existing re
g of a d -2 position will be absorbed from existing resources available under the approved programme budget for the biennium 2016 –2017 ; 3. also decides that one of the three d -2 positions contained in the approved staffing table for the biennium 2016 –2017 shall be abolished as soon as the deput
rovides that the sessions of the conference of the parties shall take place at the seat of the secretariat , unless the conference of the parties decides otherwise or other appropriate arrangements are made by the secretariat in consultation with the parties , i. dates and venues of future sessions
he asia -pacific states of a representative of the government of fiji to serve as president at the sessions referred to in paragraph 1 above ; 3. decides that the sessions referred to in paragraph 1 above will be convened at the seat of the secretariat ; 4. requests the executive secretary to make 
ion to consider this matter at its forty -sixth session ( may 2017 ) i n the context of arrangements for intergovernmental meetings ; b . 2018 7. decides to adjust the previously agreed dates1 of the sessions in the second sessional period in 2018 to monday , 3 december , to friday , 14 december 20
 rotation among regional groups , the president of the sessions referred to in paragraph 7 above would come from the eastern european states ; 9. decides to accept with appreciation the offer by the government of poland to host the sessions referred to in paragraph 7 above ; 10. requests the execut
he conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement , recalling articles 16 and 18 of the paris agreement , decides that when applying the draft rules of procedure of the confe rence of the parties,1 pursuant to article 16 , paragraph 5 , of the paris agreement
ticles 4 , 7 , 9 , 10 , 11 and 13 of the paris agree ment with a view to achieving the purpose of this agreement as set out in its article 2 ; 4. decides to forward the following draft decisions for consideration and adoption by the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to
ate implementation and promote compliance r eferred to in article 15 , paragraph 2 , of the paris agreement ” ( now decision 20/cma.1 ) ; 5. also decides that the work of the ad hoc working group on the paris agreement conducted in accordance with decision 1/cp.21 has been completed ; ii . high -le
odalities , pro cedures and guidelines for the transparency framework for action and support referred to in article 13 of the paris agreement 38. decides that , pursuant to decision 1/cp.21 , paragraph 98 , for parties to the convention that are also parties to the paris agreement , the final bienn
60 –64 , and dec ision 2/cp.17 , paragraphs 12 –62 ; 40. also reaffirms the reporting obligations under articles 4 and 12 of the convention ; 41. decides in this context that , for parties to the paris agreement , the biennial transparency reports , technical expert review and facilitat ive , multi
al update reports , international assessment and revi ew , and international consultation and analysis referred to in decision 2/cp.17 ; 42. also decides that , to fulfil national inventory reporting obligations under the convention , parties to the paris agreement submitting annual national invent
 decision 13/cp.20 , respectively , including in years in which a biennial transparency report is not due under the paris agreement ; 43. further decides that , with respect to the reporting and review of national comm unications under the convention every four years , starting from the date that r
por ting and verification arrangements under the convention shall continue to apply , in accordance with relevant decisions , as applicable , and decides that , to enhance comparability of information , those parties may use the modalities , procedures and guideline s contained in the annex to deci
reporting commitments under articles 4 and 12 of the convention , in lieu of guidance adopt ed under the convention ; fccc/cp/2018/10/add.1 8 45. decides that the technical annex referred to in decision 14/cp.19 , paragraph 7 , containing modalities for measuring , reporting and verifying the activ
ng the activities referred to in decision 1/cp.16 , paragraph 70 , shall be submitted as an ann ex to the biennial transparency report ; 46. also decides that the technical analysis referred to in decision 14/cp.19 , paragraph 11 , containing modalities for measuring , reporting and verifying the a
ion , which will dismember or impair , totally or in part , the territorial integrity or political unity of sovereign and independent states , 1. decides to establish the local communities and indigenous peoples platform facilitative working group ; 2. affirms that the facilitative working group is
ctive of further operationalizing the local communities and indigenous peoples platform and facilitating the implementation of its functions ; 3. decides that the facilitative working group shall comprise 14 representatives , as follows : ( a ) one representative of a party from each of the five un
indigenous peoples platform for consideration and adoption by the conference of the parties at its twenty -seventh session ( november 2021 ) ; 5. decides that party representatives shall be appointed by their respective regional groups and constituencies , and that the chair of the subsidiary body 
stituencies , and that the chair of the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice shall be notified of these appointments ; 6. also decides that indigenous peoples representatives shall be appointed by the indigenous peoples , through their focal points , and that the chair of the sub
 focal points , and that the chair of the subsidiary body of scientific technological advice shall be notified of these appointments ; 7. further decides that , along with each representative , one alternate may be designated , in accordance with th e appointment process referred to in paragraphs 3
sentative for the remainder of the term if the representative can not complete the functions of the assigned office ; fccc/cp/2018/10/add.1 10 8. decides that representatives of the facilitative working group shall serve for a term of three years and shall not be eligible to serve two consecutive t
eligible to serve two consecutive terms , and that the representatives shall remain in offi ce until their successors have been elected ; 9. also decides that the facilitative working group shall elect annually two co -chairs and two vice co -chairs from among its representatives to serve for a ter
y and the other co-chair and vice co -chair being a representative from indigenous peoples and , as appropriate , local communities ; 10. further decides that the election and rotation of the co -chairs and vice co -chairs will take into account regional geographic balance , and strive for gender b
ction and rotation of the co -chairs and vice co -chairs will take into account regional geographic balance , and strive for gender balance ; 11. decides that if one of the co -chairs is temporarily unable to fulfil the obligations of the office , the r espective vice co -chair shall serve as the c
co -chairs is temporarily unable to fulfil the obligations of the office , the r espective vice co -chair shall serve as the co -chair ; 12. also decides that if one of the co -chairs or vice co -chairs is unable to complete the term of office , the facilitative working group shall elect a replacem
 of striving for gender balance in the appointment processes of representatives in accordance with decisions 36/cp.7 , 23/cp.18 and 3/cp.23 ; 15. decides that the facilitative working group shall operate on the basis of consensus ; 16. invites parties , local communities and indigenous peoples to t
change of experience and the sharing of best practices and lessons learned on mitigation and adaptation in a holistic and integrated manner ; 17. decides that the facilitative working group shall meet twice per ye ar in conjunction with the sessions of the subsidiary bodies and the session of the c
 shall meet twice per ye ar in conjunction with the sessions of the subsidiary bodies and the session of the conference of the parties ; 18. also decides that the facilitative working group , under the incremental approach , will propose an initial two -year workplan for the period 2020 –2021 for i
form for consideration by the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice at its fifty -first session ( december 2019 ) ; 19. further decides that the workplan refer red to in paragraph 18 above should take into account experiences from any activities that have already taken place under
wenty -seventh session through the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice at its fifty - fourth session ( may –june 2021 ) ; 25. decides to endorse the draft w orkplan referred to in paragraph 24 above at its twenty - seventh session ; 26. requests the secretariat to make the repor
enth session ; 26. requests the secretariat to make the report s referred to in paragraph 24 above publicly available on the unfccc website ; 27. decides that the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice will review the outcomes and activities of the facilitative working group , taki
 parties at its twenty -seventh session with a view to the conference of the parties adopting a decision on the outcome of this review ; 28. also decides that the initial mandate for the facilitative working group will span three year s , to be extended as determined by the review referred to in pa
he facilitative working group will span three year s , to be extended as determined by the review referred to in paragraph 27 above ; 29. further decides that the meetings of the facilitative working group shall be open to parties and observers under the convention ; 30. requests the secretariat to
2018 in -session workshop on long-term climate finance , and invites parties and relevant institutions to consider the key messages the rein ; 9. decides that the in -session workshops on long -term climate finance in 2019 and 2020 will focus on : ( a ) the effectiveness of climate finance , includ
rence of the parties of the deliberations of the dialogue for consideration by the conference of the parties at its twenty -fifth session ; 4 13. decides that the fourth biennial high -level ministerial dialogue on climate finance , to be convened in 2020 i n accordance with decision 3/cp.19 , will
1 , paragraph 25 . 7 green climate fund board decision b.21/18 . 8 https : //unfccc.int/submissions_and_statements . fccc/cp/2018/10/add.1 31 12. decides , in accordance with decision 1/cp.21 , paragraph 61 , to transmit to the green climate fund the guidance from the conference of the parties serv
nual report to the conference of the parties information on the steps that it has taken to implement the guidance provided in this decision ; 22. decides , in accordance with decision 1/cp.21 , paragraph 61 , to transmit to the global environment facility the guidance from the conference of the par
tional communications and biennial update reports , also recognizing that the preparation of national communications is a continuous process , 1. decides to extend the term of the consultative group of experts on national communications from parties not included in annex i to the convention for eig
s the climate technology centre and network to continue to prioritize the implementation of the outcome of the technology needs assessments ; 16. decides to extend to two years the maximum term of office of members of the advisory board of the climate technology centre and network representing envi
. takes note of the support provided to the least developed countries for the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans ; 2 3. decides to update the elements of the least developed countries work programme as listed below in order to reflect the needs of the lea st developed coun
g applied , regarding the rotation of the office of president among the five regional groups , i. dates and venues of future sessions a . 2019 1. decides to accept with appreciation the offer of the government of chile to host the twenty -fifth session of the conference of the parties , the fifteen
 session ( december 2019 ) ; fccc/cp/2018/ 10/add.2 10 ii . calendar of meetings of the convention , kyoto protocol and paris agreement bodies 9. decides to adopt the following dates for the sessional periods in 2023 : ( a ) first sessional period : monday , 5 june , to thursday , 15 june ; ( b ) s
, parties in relation to action and support in the pre -2020 period as well as of the work of the unfccc bodies in relati on to that period ; 19. decides to hold , at its twenty -sixth session ( november 2020 ) , a round table among parties and non -party stakeholders on pre-2020 implementation and
and adapt ing to the adverse effects of climate change ; 27. welcomes the continuation of the marrakech partnership for global climate action and decides to continue to appoint high-level champions , for 2021 –2025 ,5 and to continue 3 see https : //unfccc.int/topics/pre -2020 . 4 https : //www4.un
t transition of the workforce and the creation of decent work and quality jobs in accordance with nationally defined development priorities ; 10. decides to undertake a review of the implementation of the enhanced lima work programme on gender and its gender action plan at the sixty -first session 
elevant to the second periodic review since the completion of the 2013 –2015 review , and that additional information will be made available ; 4. decides that the second periodic review should , in accordance with the relevant principles and provisions of the convention and on the basis of the best
me of the second periodic review will not resul t in an alteration or redefinition of the long -term global goal stated in decision 10/cp.21 ; 6. decides that the second periodic review shall follow , mutatis mutandis , the modalities set out in paragraphs 80 –90 of decision 1/cp.18 , including a s
l follow , mutatis mutandis , the modalities set out in paragraphs 80 –90 of decision 1/cp.18 , including a structured expe rt dialogue ; 7. also decides that the second periodic review shall start in the second half of 2020 and conclude in 2022 , with the structured expert dialogue held in conjunc
by parties included in annex i to the convention , part ii : unfccc reporting guidelines on national communications ” contained in the annex ; 2. decides that parties included in annex i to the convention shall use the guidelines referred to in paragraph 1 above in preparing their national co mmuni
elines referred to in paragraph 1 above in preparing their national co mmunications , beginning with the eighth national communications ; 3. also decides to change the due date for submission of the eighth national communication s and the fifth biennial report s by parties included in annex i to th
ut no later than 31 december 2022 , in order to provide parties with the opportunity to includ e the inventory data in these reports ; 4. further decides that all references to decision 4/cp.5 in decision 1/cp.24 shall be read as references to de cision 6/cp.25 . 1 adopted in decision 4/cp.5 and co
ited specific guidance provided by the conference of the parties on the areas that the commi ttee should prioritize in implementing its work ; 8. decides that , in order to ensure that the paris committee on capacity -building can operate effectively and efficiently , there is a need for parties to
provide guidance on the operations , planning and implementation of work , and reporting o f the paris committee on capacity - building ; 9. also decides that the priority areas of the paris committee on capacity -building are : ( a ) enhancing coherence and coordination of capacity -building under
with bodies and relevant actors under and outside the convention , as appropriate and in accordance with their respec tive mandates ; 10. further decides that , going forward and subje ct to the availability of resources , the paris committee on capacity -building shall conduct the activities set o
acity -building shall conduct the activities set out in the annex , in accordance with the priority areas referred to in paragraph 9 ab ove ; 11. decides that the paris committee on capacity -building s hall work on any additional activities that may be assigned to it by the conference of the parti
l activities that may be assigned to it by the conference of the parties within its mandate , subject to the availability of resources ; 12. also decides to extend the paris co mmittee on capacity -building for five years and to review its progress and need for extension at the thirtieth session of
ent of standing committee on finance fo cal points to liaise with the other constituted bodies under the convention and the paris agreement ; 17. decides to initiate the review of the functions8 of the standing committee on finance at the twenty -seventh sess ion of the conference of the parties ( 
nations and the green climate fund , and requests the president to report on this engagement at its twenty -sixth session ( november 2020 ) ; 10. decides to continue its consideration of th e matter in paragraph 9 above at its twenty - sixth session ; 11. invites parties to submit to the secretaria
f the parties information on the steps it has taken to implem ent the guidance provided in this decision ; 14. takes note of decision 6/cma.2 and decides to transmit to the green climate fund the guidance from the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agr eeme
veloped countries fund council prior to those countries ’ graduation from least developed country status ; 11. takes note of decision 7/cma.2 and decides to transmit to the global environment facility the guidance from the conference of the parties servi ng as the meeting of the parties to the pari
mounting to eur 7,501,900 , to be added to the programme budget for the biennium 2020 –2021 in the event that the united nations general assembly decides not to provide resources for these activitie s in the united nations regular budget ( see table 3 ) ; 12. reques ts the executive secretary to re
9/13/add.2 27 cent of each such ap propriation line shall apply , while ensuring no negative imp acts on the activities under each division ; 14. decides to maintain the level of the working capital reserve at 8.3 per cent of the estimated expenditure ; 15. urges parties that have not made contribu
ary matters 24. takes note of the information contained in the note by the secretariat on the revise d indicative contributions for 201 9 ; 5 25. decides that the scale of contributions contained in the annex shall also be applicable for 2019 , covering 85 per cent of the contributions specified in
he e ffectiveness and adequacy of the support provided to the technology mechanism in supporting the implementation of the paris agreement 16 and decides that the main challenges identified therein should be considered under the global stocktake ; 45. highlights the importance of cooperation on tec
ress towards achieving it ; xiii . ocean 49. welcomes the outcomes of and key messages18 from the ocean and climate change dialogue19 in 2022 and decides that future dialogues will , from 2023 , be facilitated by two co-facilitators , selected by parties biennially , who will be responsible for dec
he financial mechanism , the adaptation fund , the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund and observers to them ; 16. decides to establish the sharm el- sheikh online portal under the joint work referred to in paragraph 14 above for sharing information on projects , init
ternational assessment and review the conference of the parties , recalling decisions 1/cp.16 , 2/cp . 17 , 18/cp.22 , 1/cp.24 and 18/ cma.1 , 1. decides that the modalities and procedures for international assessment and review , contained in annex ii to decision 2/cp.17 , shall continue to be use
s for international consultation and analysis the conference of the parties , recalling decisions , 1/cp.16 , 2/cp.17 , 1/cp.24 and 18/cma.1 , 1. decides that the modalities and guidelines for international consultation and analysis , contained in annex iv to decision 2/cp.17 , shall continue to be
e convention , also recalling decisions 24/cp.19 and 1/cp.24 , in particular paragraph 42 , further recalling decisions 18/cma.1 and 5/cma.3 , 1. decides that , when reporting th eir annual greenhouse gas inventories under the convention in accordance with the “ guidelines for the preparation of na
entory report , or as per paragraph 44 of decision 1/cp.24 and using the common reporting tables set out in annex i to decision 5/cma.3 ; 2. also decides that the global warming potential values , excluding the value for fossil methane used by parties included in annex i to the convention to calcul
t report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change 2 and that these values shall be applied by no later than 31 december 2024 ; 3. further decides that parties included in annex i to the convention may in addition also use other metric s ( e.g . global temperature potential ) to report suppl
ng of the common reporting tables referred to in decision 5/cma.3 , paragraph 8 , is not expected to be available for use until 30 june 2024 ; 6. decides to change the deadline for the submission by parties included in annex i to the convention that are parties to the paris agreement of their annua
p.5 , 32/cp.7 , 17/cp.8 , 18/cp.8 , 14/cp.11 , 2/cp.17 , 15/cp.17 , 19/cp.18 , 24/cp.19 , 1/cp.21 , 1/cp.24 , 6/cp.25 , 18/cma.1 and 5/cma.3 , 1. decides that , until it adopts a further decision on the matter , the global warming potential values used by parties in their reporting under the conven
king group i to the fifth assessment report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change , 1 excluding the value for fossil methane ; 2. also decides that all parties shall start using the global warming potential values referred to in paragraph 1 above no later than on 31 december 2024 for the
 in paragraph 1 above no later than on 31 december 2024 for the purpose of meeting their reporting requirements under the convention ; 3. further decides to consider the need to update the common metric values referred to in this decision no later than in 2028 , concurrently with the review of the 
 later than in 2028 , concurrently with the review of the modalities , procedures and guidelines contained in the annex to decision 18/cma.1 ; 4. decides that each party to the convention may in addition also use other metrics ( e.g . global temperature potential ) to report supplemental informatio
ngements of the santiago network from 4 to 6 may 2022 , including for making the necessary logistical and financial arrangements therefor ; “ 3 . decides that the santiago network will have the following structure : ( a ) a hosted secretariat that will facilitate its work , to be known as the santi
es that have already been made to the santiago network ; “ 8 . adopts the terms of reference of the santiago network contained in annex i ; “ 9 . decides to establish the advisory board of the santiago network as part of the warsaw international mechanism for loss and damage associated with climate
. fccc/cp/2022/10/add.1 38 to the appropriate governing body or bodies3 and have the roles and responsibilities outlined in annex i ; “ 10 . also decides that the members of the advisory board will be elected at the next session of the governing body or bodies ( november –december 2023 ) and encour
 , in accordance with decisions 36/cp.7 , 23/cp.18 , and 3/cp.25 , and the composition of the advisory board outlined in annex i ; “ 11 . further decides that the members elected to the advisory board shall serve a term of two years and shall be eligible to serve a maximum of two consecutive terms 
lected to the advisory board shall serve a term of two years and shall be eligible to serve a maximum of two consecutive terms of office ; “ 12 . decides that half of the members elected in 2023 shall serve a term of three years and half of the members shall serve a term of two years , after w hich
rm of two years , after w hich time the governing body or bodies shall elect half of the members every year for a term of two years ; “ 13 . also decides that the members of the advisory board shall remain in office until their successors are elected ; “ 14 . requests the advisory board to develop 
e from organizations , bodies , networks and experts under t he santiago network , until the santiago network secretariat is operational ; “ 16 . decides that the santiago network secretariat will be accountable to and operate under the guidance of the governing body or bodies through the advisory 
 consortium of organizations able to provide the necessary administrative and infrastructural support for its effective functioning ; “ 17 . also decides that the santiago network secretariat shall , once it is operational , elaborate modalities and procedures for the santiago network under the gui
ocedures how to adopt decisions in the event that all efforts at reaching consensus have been exhausted . fccc/cp/2022/10/add.1 39 “ 18 . further decides that the selection process for the host of the santiago network secretariat shall be launched upon the conclusion of the twenty -seventh sessio n
f the parties information on the steps it has taken to implement the guidance provided in this decision ; 24. takes note of decision 16/cma.4 and decides to transmit to the green climate fund the guidance from the conference of the parties s erving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreeme
 the parties information on the steps it has taken to i mplement the guidance provided in this decision ; 22. takes note of decision 17/cma.4 and decides to transmit to the global environment facility the guidance from the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris
s for the technology executive committee towards achieving gender balanc e in its composition ; 18. recalls decision 9/cp.26 , paragraph 15 , and decides that the technology executive committee shall comprise , in addition to its current membership , one additional member from parties included in a
ake , pursuant to decision 19/cma.1 , paragraph 37 ( c ) , as well as other relevant processes under the convention and the paris agreement ; 22. decides to consider the continuation of periodic reviews at its twenty -ninth session ( november 2024 ) pursuant to decision 5/cp.25 , paragraph 8 ; 23. 
 to the kyoto protocol and the fifth session of the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement ; 1 2. decides to revise the dates for the second sessional period in 2023 from monday , 6 november , to friday , 17 november , to the following dates : thursda
2022/inf.9 . 3 fccc/sbi/2022/3 and add.1 . 4 fccc/sbi/2022/inf.9 . 5 fccc/sbi/2022/inf .2 . 6 fccc/sbi/2022/inf.1 . fccc/cp/2022/ 10/add.3 10 12. decides that the scale of contributions contained in the annex shall also be applicable for 2022 , covering 89 per cent of the contributions specified in
 under the paris agreement by the twenty -fourth session of the conference of the parties , in accordance with decisions 1/cp.22 and 1/cma.1 ; 6. decides that its president , in consultation with the bureau of the conference of the parties and the co -chairs of the ad hoc working group on the paris
der , as a n element of the dialogue , the efforts of parties in relation to action and support , as appropriate , in the pre - 2020 period ; 17. decides to convene a stocktake on pre -2020 implementation and ambition at the twenty -fourth session of the conference of the parti es , which will appl
ationalization of the platform based on the open multi -stakeholder dialogue referred to in paragraph 2 above and the submissions received ; 4 5. decides that the overall purpose s of the platform will be to strengthen the knowledge , technologies , practices and efforts of local co mmunities and i
s and local communities that could contribute to the achievement of the nationally determined contributions of the parties concerned ; 7. further decides to continue to work towards the full operationalization of the platform ; 8. recommends that the processes under the platform , including its ope
rocedures ; and adequate funding from the secretar iat and voluntary contributi ons to enable the functions referred to in paragraph 6 above ; 9. decides that the first activity of the platform will be a multi -stakeholder workshop on implementing the functions referred to in paragraph 6 above , to
the conference of the parties at its twenty - fifth session ( november 201 9 ) in the context of the review referred to in paragraph 7 below ; 6. decides that the topic s of the annual in -session workshops to be held in conjunction with the sessions of the subsidiary bodies taking place in the fir
 reports to the conference of the parties ; 14. requests the standing committee on finance to further strengthen its stakeholder engagement ; 15. decides to continue its deliberations on ways to enhance the participation of members of the standing committee on finance , acknowledging the need to en
the standing committee on finance , and in particular its workload , when providing strategic guidance to the standing committee on finance ; 19. decides to agree on the timeline for the second review of the functions of the standing committee on finance at its twenty -fifth session ( november 2019
efforts to ensure that the green climate fund will enjoy such privileges and immunities as are necessary for the fulfilment of its purposes ; 15. decides to continue its consideration of the board ’ s request as reflected in green climate fund board decision b.08/24 and the procedure agreed in deci
ent and financial flows ; 3. requests the operating entities of the financial mechanism to continue to enhance complementarity and coherence ; 4. decides to initiate the seventh review of the financial mechanism at the twenty - sixth session of the conference of the parties ( november 2020 ) in acc
ng the effective implementation of the climate technology centre and network , as contained in the report referred to in paragraph 1 above ; 4 5. decides to renew the memorandum of understanding between the conference of the parties and the united nations environment programme regarding the hosting
ontinue to provide support for capacity -building ac tivities in countries with economies in transition that are currently receiving support ; 4. decides to conclude the fourth review , and request s the subsidiary body for implementation , at its session to be held in june 2020 , to initiate the f
ons , on the scope of the next periodic review of the long -term global goal under the convention and of o verall progress towards achieving it , decides that the consideration of the scope of the next periodic review of the long - term global goal under the convention and of overall progress towar
mounting to eur 9,651,400 , to be added to the programme budget for the biennium 2018 –2019 in the event that the united nations general assembly decides not to provide resources for these activities in the united nati ons regular budget ( see table 3 ) ; 9. requests the executive secretary to repo
 minus 25 per cent of each such appropriation l ine shall apply , while ensuring no negative impacts on the activities under each programme ; 11. decides to maintain the level of the working capital reserve at 8.3 per cent of the estimated expenditure ; 12. invites all parties to the convention to 
provides that the sessions of the conference of the parties shall take place at the seat of the secret ariat unless the conference of the parties decides otherwise or other appropriate arrangements are made by the secretariat in consultation with parties , also recalling decision 24/cp.22 , paragra
erence of the parties at its twenty -fourth session ; ii . calendar of meetings of the convention , kyoto protocol and paris agreement bodies 11. decides to adopt the following dates for the sessional periods in 2022 : ( a ) first sessional period : monday , 6 june , to thursday , 16 june ; ( b ) s
commendations on this matter for consideration and adoption by the conference of the parties at its twenty - ninth session ( november 2024 ) ; 3. decides on the following actions and steps necessary for the subsidiary body for implement ation to initiate the assessment referred to in paragraph 2 ab
plem entation at its sixtieth session in its assessment of progress in the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans ; 4. also decides that the assessment referred to in paragraph 2 above should take into account all the guiding principles of the process to formulate and implemen
te finance and lo oks forward to the summary to be prepared by the presidency of the conference of the parties at its twenty -sixth session ; 18. decides that continued discussions on long- term climate finance will conclude in 2027 ; 19. requests the standing committee on finance to prepare a repo
o assessing the achievement of the goa l in the context of the preparation of its biennial assessment and overview of climate finance flows ; 20. decides to convene biennial high- level ministerial dialogues on climate finance in 2022 , 2024 and 2026 and requests the presidency of the conference of
ocedure . 5 https : //www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/pages/home.aspx . fccc/cp/2021/12/add.1 50 19. takes note of decision 11/cma.3 and decides to transmit to the green climate fund the guidance from the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreemen
f the parties information on the steps it has taken to implement the guidance provided in this decision ; 22. takes note of decision 12/cma.3 and decides to tran smit to the global environment facility the guidance from the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the pari
of the united nations environment programme to the second independent review , as contained in the report referred to in paragraph 1 above ; 6 9. decides to renew the memorandum of understanding between the conference of the parties and the united nations environment programme regarding the hosting
kages with the aim of scaling up the climate technology centre and network ’ s provision of technical support to developing country parties ; 22. decides to align the periodicity of the independent revie w of the effective implementation of the climate technology centre and network with the periodi
 until the conference of the parties reviews the functions of the climate technology centre and network at its thirty- first session ( 2026 ) and decides whether to extend its term ; 8 23. requests the subsidiary body for implementation to start considering , at its sixty- second session ( 2025 ) ,
pacity -building portal ; 1 1 https : //unfccc.int/topi cs/capacity -building/workstreams/capacity -building -portal . fccc/cp/2021/12/add.2 4 7. decides to conclude the fifth review of the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in countries with economies in transition and requests
 , pursuant to decision 11/cp.24 , parag raph 5 , the revised terms of reference of the consultative group of experts contained in the annex ; 2. decides that the representative of parties referred to in decision 11/cp.24 , paragraph 3 , shall participate in the work of the consultative group of ex
 group of experts , noting that this does not set a precedent for the consideration of the composition of other bodies under the unfccc ; 3. also decides to include in the composition of the consult ative group of experts , in addition to current members from parties not included in annex i to the 
developed countries in achieving their vision of having produced thei r first national adaptation plan by the end of 2020 or soon thereafter , 1. decides to extend the mandate of the least developed countries expert group ( hereinafter referred to as the group ) under its current terms of reference
e mandate of the least developed countries expert group ( hereinafter referred to as the group ) under its current terms of reference ; 3 2. also decides that the next re view of the mandate of the group will take place at its thirty -sixth session ( 2031 ) ; 3. further decides to take stock of the
eference ; 3 2. also decides that the next re view of the mandate of the group will take place at its thirty -sixth session ( 2031 ) ; 3. further decides to take stock of the work of the group in order to review its progress and terms of reference at its thirty -first session ( 2026 ) , the midway 
it relates to implementation of the paris agreement at its eighth session ( 2026 ) as part of the stocktake referred to in paragraph 3 above ; 5. decides to outline at its twenty -ninth session ( november 2024 ) the steps for the stocktake referred to in paragraphs 3 –4 above ; 6. welcomes the effo
oup ; 17. requests the group to mobilize more partners to address specific priority needs of the least developed countries , as appropriate ; 18. decides to adjust the composition of the group to be as follows : ( a ) five members from african states that are least developed countries ; ( b ) two m
 in fostering full and effective participation of indigenous peoples and local communities in achieving the objective of the paris agreement ; 5. decides to continue the mandate of the facilitative working group ; 1 fccc/sbsta/2021/1 . 2 fccc/sbsta/2021/1 , annex v. fccc/cp/2021/12/add.2 12 6. welc
 -ninth session ( november 2024 ) through the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice at its sixtieth session ( june 2024 ) ; 12. decides that the next review of the facilitative working group will be held in 2024 , including c onsideration of the request in decision 2/cp.24 , parag
cularly those that are based in developing countries , may need support , including financial support , in providing technical assistance ; “ 9 . decides that the santiago network is to have the following functions : ( a ) contributing to the effective implementation of the functions5 of the warsaw
age associated with the adverse effects of climate change , in cluding urgent and timely responses to the impacts of climate change ; “ 10 . also decides to further develop the institutional arrangements of the santiago network by : ( a ) inviting parties and relevant organizations to submit via th
ounting to eur 7,597,840 , to be added to the programme budget for the biennium 2022 –2023 in the event that the unit ed nations general assembly decides not to provide resources for these activities in the united nations regular budget ( see table 3 ) ; 11. requests the executive secretary to repo
by decision 17/cp.4 , para . 16 . 2 fccc/sbi/2021/4 and add.1 –2 . 3 see document fccc/sbi/20 21/4 , chap . iii . c. fccc/cp/2021/12/add.2 41 13. decides to maintain the level of the working capital reserve at 8.3 per cent of the estimated expenditure ; 14. urges parties that have not made contribu
/add.2 52 26. request s the secretariat to enhance follow -up on parties ’ outstanding core contributions , including through payment plans ; 27. decides to keep the level of the working capital reserve at 8.3 per cent of annual total expenditure ( in line with the unfccc financial procedures ) ; 2
