idance to the operating entities of the financial mechanism – the green climate fund and the global environment facility – and on the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund 6. confirms that the standing committee on finance shall serve the paris agreement ; 7. also confi
al climate change fund 6. confirms that the standing committee on finance shall serve the paris agreement ; 7. also confirms that the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund shall serve the paris agreement ; 8. requests the standing committee on finance to prepare draft g
 committee on finance to prepare draft guidance for the entities entrusted with the operation of the financial mechanism , and on the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund , for consideration and adoption by the conf erence of the parties serving as the meeting of the p
the kci shall be composed of 14 members , with two members from each of the five united nations regional groups , one member from the least developed countries , one member from the small island developing states and two members f rom relevant intergovernmental organizations ; ( c ) members shall s
sion 1/cp.21 , paragraphs 41 , 42 and 45 , noting with appreciation the technical work undertaken by the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group , in collaboration with the standing c ommittee on finance,1 in relation to decision 1/cp.21 , paragraphs 41 , 42 and 45 , i. 
enhance the coherence of the work of adaptation - related institutional arrangements 1. decides that the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group shall serve the paris agreement ; 2. assigns any future and emerging adaptation -related work necessary for the effective impl
ding relevant scientific and technical information and sharing knowledg e ; 5. also invites the consultative group of experts and the least developed countries expert group , in line with their mandates , as appropriate , ensuring efficiency and consistency , to work together on training for assess
s for recognizing the adaptation efforts of developing country parties 8. notes the existing work of the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group related to synthesizing information on specific adaptation themes and on relevant lessons learned and good practices ; 9. requ
ptation efforts of developing country parties ; 13. requests the secretariat , under the guidance of the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group and in collaboration with relevant stakeholders , to prepare synthesis reports every two years starting in 2020 on specific ad
the paris committee on capacity -building , to consider , taking into account the recommendations of the adaptation committee and the least developed countries exper t group,5 as well as relevant submissions from parties and observer organizations , ways to facilitate the mobilization of support fo
sist the least developed country parties and other developing country parties , drawing on the work of the adaptation committee , the least developed countries expert group an d other relevant bodies , as appropriate , in building or strengthening their enabling environments , policy frameworks , i
ng the adequacy and effectiveness of adaptation and support 32. notes the constraints encountered by the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group in developing methodologies , including the differences in national circumstances in relation to adaptation , the difficulty o
d other relevant stakeholders to undertake further technical work , building on the existing work of the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group , in collaboration with the standing committee on finance , and taking i nto consideration ongoing relevant work under and out
hodologies for reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of adaptation and support ; 35. also invites the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group , in collaboration with the standing committee on finance , and relevant experts to contribute to the technical work referred 
elevant organizations , as well as bilateral and multilateral agencies , to submit by april 2020 to the adaptati on committee and the least developed countries expert group information on gaps , challenges , opportunities and options associated with methodologies for reviewing the adequacy and effe
ose that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change and have significant capacity constraints , such as the least developed countries and small island developing states , considering the need for public and grant -based resour ces for adaptation ; ( k ) information on acti
participation of all relevant stakeholders and takes into account sustainable development , gender , the special circumstances of the least developed countries and small island developing state s , and the enhancement of indigenous capacities and endogenous technologies ; ( c ) be results -oriented
 : ( a ) building on and enhancing th e transparency arrangements under the convention , recognizing the special circumstances of the least developed countries ( ldcs ) and small island developing states ( sids ) , and implementing the transparency framework in a facilitative , non -intrusive , non
 in accordance with existing practices ; 12. invites developed country parties to mobilize support for capacity -building so that the least developed countries , small island developing states and other developing countries can effectively participate in the global stocktake and take up relevant gl
 2 members each from the five regional groups of the united nations and 1 member each from the small island developing states and the least developed countries , taking into account the goal of gende r balance . 6. the cma shall elect members of the committee as well as an alternate for each member
ticular attention to the respective national capabilities and circumstances of parties , recognizing the special circumstances of the least developed countries and small island d eveloping states , at all stages of the process , in accordance with the provisions of the paris agreement , including i
the national capabilities a nd circumstances of the party concerned . special circumstances of small island developing states and the least developed countries , as well as situations of force majeure , should also be recognized , where relevant . 29. the party concerned may provide to the co mmitt
ose that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change and have significant capacity constraints , such as the least developed countries and small island developing states , considering the need for public and grant -based resources for adaptation ; 18. takes note of the esti
omposed of 14 members , of which : ( a ) two members from each of the five united nations regional groups ; ( b ) one member from the least developed countries ; ( c ) one member from the small island develo ping states ; ( d ) two members from relevant intergovernmental organizations.1 5. by the s
timely manner and invites the contributors to ensure the sustainability of the resources of the fund ; 41. highlights the role of the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund in supporting actions by developing countries to address climate change , welcomes the pledges mad
hange fund in supporting actions by developing countries to address climate change , welcomes the pledges made to the two funds and invites developed countries to further contribute to the two funds ; 42. requests the standing committee on finance to prepare a report on the doubling of adaptation f
t and urges developed country parties to meet the goal ; 15 58. emphasizes that accelerated financial support for developing countries from developed countries and other sources i s critical to enhancing mitigation action and addressing inequities in access to finance , including its costs , terms 
ree members from latin america and the caribbean ; ( d ) two members from small island developing states ; ( e ) two members from the least developed countries ; ( f ) one member from a developing country party not included in the categories listed above . iii . modalities of work 5. the transition
r acknowledges that deliberations on the new collective quantified goal on climate finance should build on lessons learned from the goal of developed countries of mobilizing jointly usd 100 billion p er year by 2020 in the context of meaningful mitigation actions and transparency on implementation 
 , effectiveness and performance of the adaptation committee ................................ ... 61 11/cma.4 matters relating to the least developed countries ................................ ....................... 62 united nations fccc /pa/cma/2022/ 10/add.2 distr . : general 17 march 2023 orig
ng special consideration , including in terms of support for participation , to experts from developing countries , particularl y the least developed countries and small island developing states ; 13. also requests the secretariat to include any cases of persistent inconsistencies and/or non-respon
ting of the par ties to the paris agreement at its fifth session on : ( i ) further consideration of the special circumstances of the least developed countries and small island developing states ; fccc/pa/cma/2022/ 10/add . 2 4 ( ii ) the modalities for reviewing information that is confidential ; 
gation outcomes and ensuring avoidance of double counting . ( b ) other 19. the international registry administrator shall assist the least developed countries and small island develo ping states that use the international registry with functions and processes , as necessary , subject to the availa
e national capabilities and circumstances of participating developing coun try parties and recognize the special circumstances of the least developed countries and small island developing states . 9. the article 6 technical expert review shall be implemented in a facilitative , non - intrusive , no
n with the format of the technical expert review referred to in decision 18/cma.1 , annex , chapter vii , whenever possible . 20. the least developed countries and small island developing states may choose to participate in the same centralized review as a group , to the extent possible . vi . proc
, to the extent possible . when selecting members of the technical expert review team for centralized reviews of submissions from the least developed countries and small island developing sta tes , the secretariat shall strive to include technical experts from the least developed countries and smal
he least developed countries and small island developing sta tes , the secretariat shall strive to include technical experts from the least developed countries and small island developing states , while at the same time ensuring that those experts do not participate in reviews for the party that no
e available . additional regional training seminars targeted at technical experts from d eveloping country parties , particularly the least developed countries and small island developing states , may be organized . v. courses of the training programme 8. the following courses relating to the revie
 be specified by the supervisory body . 58. all the fees referred to in paragraphs 50 –55 above shall be waived for activities in the least developed countries and small island developing states . 59. the supervisory body may adjust and implement the fee structure and levels within the boundary to 
nced representation , as follows : ( a ) two members from each of the five united nations regional groups ; ( b ) one member from the least developed countries ; ( c ) one member from small island developing states ( decisi on 3/cma.3 , annex , para . 4 ) . b. nomination and election 4. the cma sha
h plenary meeting 20 november 2022 1 fccc/sb/2021/6 , annex . fccc/pa/cma/2022/ 10/add.2 62 decision 11/cma.4 matters relating to the least developed countries the conference of the parties and the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement , recalling de
 1/cp.21 , 19/cp.21 , 16/cp.24 , 7/cp.25 , 15/cp.26 , 11/cma.1 and 19/cma.1 , having considered the report on the 42nd meeting of the least developed countries expert group,1 underscoring the importance of continued implementation by the green climate fund of the mandate given to it in decision 1/c
plementation by the green climate fund of the mandate given to it in decision 1/cp.21 , paragraph 46 , 1. welcome the progress of the least developed countries expert group in implementing its work progr amme for 2022 –2023,2 including its provision of support to the least developed countries for d
least developed countries expert group in implementing its work progr amme for 2022 –2023,2 including its provision of support to the least developed countries for developing project concepts for implementing adaptation actions associated with the priorities in their national adaptation plans ; 3 2
aptation actions associated with the priorities in their national adaptation plans ; 3 2. also welcome the successful c onduct by the least developed countries expert group of the national adaptation plan writing workshop for asia -pacific least developed countries held in siem reap , cambodia , fr
 successful c onduct by the least developed countries expert group of the national adaptation plan writing workshop for asia -pacific least developed countries held in siem reap , cambodia , from 12 to 15 july 2022 and the nap expo held in gaborone , botswana , from 22 to 26 august 2022 ; 3. expres
cambodia for hosting the workshop referred to in paragraph 2 above and the government of botswana for hosting the 42nd meeting of the least developed countries expert group and nap expo 2022 and express their gratitude to the government of ireland for providing financial support for the work of the
 group and nap expo 2022 and express their gratitude to the government of ireland for providing financial support for the work of the least developed countries expert group ; 4. express their appreciation to the least developed countries expert group and the secretariat for their valuabl e work in 
and for providing financial support for the work of the least developed countries expert group ; 4. express their appreciation to the least developed countries expert group and the secretariat for their valuabl e work in supporting adaptation in the least developed countries ; 5. also express their
preciation to the least developed countries expert group and the secretariat for their valuabl e work in supporting adaptation in the least developed countries ; 5. also express their appreciation to the organizations that contributed to designing and conducting the workshop referred to in paragrap
nizations that contributed to designing and conducting the workshop referred to in paragraph 2 above ; 6. welcome the progress of the least developed countries expert group in developing technical guidelines for the implementation of national adaptation plans4 and note that those guidelines may hel
g the design and provision of support for the implementation of national adaptation plans ; 7. also n ote the limited progress of the least developed countries on the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans and the need for enhanced support of the least developed countries to a
east developed countries on the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans and the need for enhanced support of the least developed countries to advance the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans ; 8. further note that , as at 14 november 2022 , 17 of the 46 
vance the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans ; 8. further note that , as at 14 november 2022 , 17 of the 46 least developed countries had submitted a national adaptation p lan since the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans was established in 2010 , 
nal adaptation p lan since the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans was established in 2010 , and of those 17 least developed countries with a national adaptation plan , 14 had accessed funding for implementing adaptation actions associated with the p riorities identified th
add.2 63 9. reiterate and recall decision 1/cp.21 , paragraph 46 , and note decision 16/cp.27 in relation to enhancing support to the least developed countries for the formulation and implementation of national adaptation plans ; 10. underscore the importance of developing project pipelines and pro
ct pipelines and proposals for implementing adaptation actions associated with the priorities in the national adaptation plans of the least developed countries and encourage relevant organizations , as well as operating entities of the financial mechanism , to enhance support to the least developed
countries and encourage relevant organizations , as well as operating entities of the financial mechanism , to enhance support to the least developed countries in this regard ; 11. note with appreciation the financial pledges , totalling usd 70.6 million , made by the governments of denmark , finla
 denmark , finland , germany , ireland , slovenia , sweden and switzerland and the government of the walloon region of belgium to the least developed countries fund and urge additional contributions to the fund ; 12. request the least developed countries expert group to enhance the support provided
f the walloon region of belgium to the least developed countries fund and urge additional contributions to the fund ; 12. request the least developed countries expert group to enhance the support provided to the least develop ed countries for aligning national adaptation plans and nationally determ
 the least develop ed countries for aligning national adaptation plans and nationally determined contributions ; 13. also request the least developed countries expert group to continue to support the least developed countries in integrating gender considerations into the formulat ion and implementa
lans and nationally determined contributions ; 13. also request the least developed countries expert group to continue to support the least developed countries in integrating gender considerations into the formulat ion and implementation of national adaptation plans ; 14. welcome the development by
ting gender considerations into the formulat ion and implementation of national adaptation plans ; 14. welcome the development by the least developed countries expert group of its draft rules of procedure ; 15. adopt the rules of procedure of the least developed countries expert group contained in 
e development by the least developed countries expert group of its draft rules of procedure ; 15. adopt the rules of procedure of the least developed countries expert group contained in the annex ; 16. encourage the least developed countries expert group to prioritize the implementation of the elem
procedure ; 15. adopt the rules of procedure of the least developed countries expert group contained in the annex ; 16. encourage the least developed countries expert group to prioritize the implementation of the elements of its mandate in accordance with the needs of the least developed countries 
 developed countries expert group to prioritize the implementation of the elements of its mandate in accordance with the needs of the least developed countries and the availability of resources ; 17. invite parties and relevant organizations to contin ue to provide resources to support implementati
7. invite parties and relevant organizations to contin ue to provide resources to support implementation of the work programme of the least developed countries expert group . fccc/pa/cma/2022/10/add.2 64 annex rules of procedure of the least developed countries expert group i. scope 1. these rules 
on of the work programme of the least developed countries expert group . fccc/pa/cma/2022/10/add.2 64 annex rules of procedure of the least developed countries expert group i. scope 1. these rules of procedure shall apply to the least developed countries expert group ( leg ) in conjunction with 5/c
d.2 64 annex rules of procedure of the least developed countries expert group i. scope 1. these rules of procedure shall apply to the least developed countries expert group ( leg ) in conjunction with 5/cp.7 , 29/cp.7 , 7/cp.9 , 4/cp.10 , 4/cp.1 1 , 8/cp.13 , 6/cp.16 , 5/cp.17 , 12/cp.18 , 3/cp.20 
regional groups and constituencies . the composition of the leg shall be as follows:1 ( a ) five members from african states that are least developed countries ( ldcs ) ; ( b ) two members from asia -pacific states that are ldcs ; ( c ) two members from small island developing states that are ldcs 
 . 17. the chair shall perform the following functions : 2 officers shall be elected in accordance with the terms of reference of the least developed countries expert group contained in the annex to decision 29/cp.7 , and as per the decision of the leg to also appoint a lusophone ra pporteur . fccc
of the following : ( a ) two members from each of the five recognized united nations regional groups ; ( b ) one member each from the least developed countries and small island developing states ; ( c ) two members of the executive committee , nominated by the executive committee from among its mem
d to support developing country parties that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change , in particular the least developed countries and small island developing states , in i mplementing their national adaptation plans and adaptation communications , including those submi
icular attention to the respectiv e national capabilities and circumstances of parties , recognizing the special circumstances of the least developed countries and small island developing states , at all stages of the process , in accordance with the provisions of the paris agreement , includi ng i
 the national capabilities and circumstances of the party concerned . special circumstances of small island developing states and the least developed countries , as well as situations of force majeure , should also be recognized , where relevant . “ 29 . the party concerned may provide to the commi
ation in developing country parties in response to their growing needs , including contributions made to the adaptation f und and the least developed countries fund , which represent significant progress compared with previous efforts ; 18. urges developed country parties to at least double their c
ond to the scale of needs caused by the adverse impacts of clima te change ; 72. resolves to strengthen partnerships between developing and developed countries , funds , technical agencies , civil society and communities to enhance understanding of how approaches to averting , minimizing and addres
 meeting of the parties to th e paris agreement at its fourth session ( november 2022 ) , on : ( a ) the special circumstances of the least developed countries and small island developing states ; ( b ) elaboration of further guidance in relation to corresponding adjustments for multi- year and sin
tive approaches ; ( b ) help parties ensure that cooperative approaches in which they participate support ambition ; ( c ) assist the least developed countries and small island developing states in meet ing the participation requirements as set out in chapter ii of the annex ( participation ) ; 13.
ow-emission development strateg y , if it has submitted one , and the long -term goals of the paris agreement . 5. in relation to the least developed countries and small island developing states , pursuant to articl e 4 , paragraph 6 , their special circumstances shall be recognized where this guid
perational entities ; ( f ) ensure the implementation of the requirements referred to in paragraph 29 of the annex in relation to the least developed countries and small island developing states ; ( g ) consid er ways to encourage participation by small and micro businesses in the mechanism , in pa
loping states ; ( g ) consid er ways to encourage participation by small and micro businesses in the mechanism , in particular in the least developed countries and small island developing states ; ( h ) consider opportunities to engage with the local communities and indigenous peoples platfor m and
nced representation , as follows : ( a ) two members from each of the five united nations regional groups ; ( b ) one member from the least developed countries ; ( c ) one member from small island developing states . 1 “ article ” refers to an article of the paris agreement , unless otherwise speci
implementation of its ndc and its long- term low ghg emission development strategy , if it has submitted one . 29. in relation to the least developed countries and small island developing states , pursuant to article 4 , paragraph 6 , their special circumstances shall be recognized where these rule
, including in terms of support for participating in the training programme , to experts from developing countries , particularly the least developed countries and small island developing states ; 35. notes that the information r eported pursuant to decision 18/cma.1 , annex , chapter iv , is not c
e available . additional regional training seminars targeted at technical experts from dev eloping country parties , particularly the least developed countries and small island developing states , may be organized . e. courses of the training programme 10. the following courses relating to informat
urces from the adaptation fund ) , resulting in a total number of accredited implementing entities of 33 national ( of which 9 in the least developed countries and 7 in small island developing states ) , 14 multilateral and 7 regional implementing entities , of which 31 were reaccredited ( 16 natio
omposed of 14 members , of which : ( a ) two members from each of the five united nations regional groups ; ( b ) one member from the least developed countries ; ( c ) one member from the small island developing states ; ( d ) two members from relevant intergovernmental organizations.1 5. by the sa
ference of the parties ( cop ) on its activities as an operating entity of the financial mechanism , including the information on the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund , and other re levant gef policy , information and evaluation documents ; ( c ) the annual reports
rts of the standing committee on finance ; ( g ) the reports on the work programme on long -term finance ; 1 ( h ) the reports of the least developed countries expert group , the adaptation committee and the consultative group of experts on national communications from parties not included in annex
urces from the adaptation fund ) , resulting in a total number of accredited implementing entities of 33 national ( of which 9 in the least developed countries and 7 in small island developing states ) , 14 multilateral and 7 regional implementing entities , of which 31 were reaccredited ( 16 natio
ference of the parties ( cop ) on its activities as an operating entity of the financial mechanism , including the information on the least developed countries fund and the fccc/kp/cmp/2021/ 8/add.1 13 special climate change fund , and other relevant gef policy , information and evaluation document
omposed of 14 members , of which : ( a ) two members from each of the five united nations regional groups ; ( b ) one member from the least developed countries ; ( c ) one member from the small island developing states ; ( d ) two members from relevant intergovernmental organizations.1 5. by the sa
rces from the adaptation fund ) , resulting in a total number of accredited implementing entities of 34 national ( of which 10 in the least developed countries and 7 in small island developing states ) , 14 multilateral and 9 regional im plementing entities , of which 33 were reaccredited ( 17 nati
 as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at its first session ; adaptation 41. requests the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group to jointly develop modalities to recognize the adaptation efforts of developing country parties , as referred to in article 7 
ar in developing countries , taking into account decision 1/cp.16 , paragraph 30 ; 45. also requests the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group , in collaboration with the standing committee on finance and other relev ant institutions , to develop methodologies , and ma
red to in article 7 , paragraph 14 ( c ) , of the agreement ; 46. further requests the green climate fund to expedite support for the least developed countries and other developing country parties for the formulation of national adaptation plans , consistent with decisi ons 1/cp.16 and 5/cp.17 , an
k of and involve , as appropriate , existing bodies and expert groups under the convention including the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group , as well as relevant organizations and expert bodies outside the convention , to develop recommendations for integrated appro
pose of the agreement as defined in its article 2 ; 53. also decides that , in accordance with article 9 , paragraph 3 , of the agreement , developed countries intend to continue the ir existing collective mobilization goal through 2025 in the context of meaningful mitigation actions and transparen
efficient application and approval procedures , and through continued readiness support to developing country parties , including the least developed countries and small island developing states , as appropriate ; fccc/cp/2015/10/add.1 10 technology development and t ransfer 65. takes note of the i
 members each from the five regional groups of the united nations and one member each from the small island developing states and the least developed countries , while taking into account the goal of gender balance ; 103. requests the ad hoc working group on the paris agreement to deve lop the moda
ects of climate change , as provided for in the convention , taking full account of the specific needs and specia l situations of the least developed countries with regard to funding and transfer of technology , recognizing that parties may be affected not only by climate change , but also by the i
10 and 11 , recognizing that enhanced support for developing country parties will allow for higher ambition in their actions . 6. the least developed countries and small island developing states may prepare and communicate strategies , plans and actions for low greenhouse ga s emission s developmen
ose that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change and have significant capacity constraints , such as the least developed countries and small island developing states , considering the need for public and grant -based resources for adaptation . 5. developed co untry part
esources through simplified approval procedures and enhanced readiness support for developing country parties , in particular for the least developed countries and small island developing st ates , in the context of their national climate strategies and plans . article 10 1. parties share a long -t
should enhance the capacity and ability of developing country parties , in particular countries with the least capacity , such as the least developed countries , and those that are particularly vulnerable to the ad verse effects of climate change , such as small island developing states , to take e
e technology executive committee , in collaboration with the climate technology centre and network , the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group , to consider how it can help parties align their technology needs assessments with th e process to formulate and implement na
rmulate and implement national adaptation plans , noting with appreciation the contributions made by developed country parties to the least developed countries fund and the special cl imate change fund , emphasizing the need to align technical support provided to developing countr y parties for the
 contained in decision 5/cp.17 and subsequent related decisions , welcoming relevant publications of the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group pertaining to the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans disseminated at this session , noting decision 
or the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans ; 7. also invites developed country parties to contribute to the l east developed countries fund and the special climate change fund ; 8. encourages united nations organizations , specialized , bilateral and multilateral agencies a
chnical support to developing country parties for the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans ; 10. requests the least developed countries expert group and the adaptation committee to consider how they can provide more information on accessing funding from the green climate fun
p/2015/10/add.2 6 from relevant events , including the nap expos , and information from other relevant sources ; ( d ) to request the least developed countries expert group , in collaboration with the adaptation committee , to organize a meeting of party experts , at which the report referred to in
ew to providing a summary of progress made in the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans ; ( e ) to request the least developed countries expert group , in collaboration with the adaptation committee and with the support of the secretariat , to prepare a report on the mee ting
eloped country parties , in accordance with decision 1/cp.16 , including financial contributions made to the green climate fund , the least developed countries fun d and the adaptation fund , providing further clarity to and predictability of public climate finance flows from 2015 to 2020 ; 1 2. ur
plementation of the sixth replenishment of the global environment facility,1 also welcoming the pledges and contributions made to the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund , noting the recommendations of the s tanding committee on finance contained in its report to the 
l environment facility,2 1. notes that the global environment facility has supported i mplementation of the remaining elements of the least developed countries work programme , including the update and implementation of national adaptation programmes of action , by providing funding to projects aim
additional voluntary financial contributions to provide support for the national adaptation plan process through contributions to the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund ; 5. welcomes the addition of eight project agencies to the network of the global environment faci
ronment facility ; 6. notes that the independent evaluation office of the global environment facility is carrying out a review of the least developed countries fund ; 1 fccc/cp/2015/4 and add.1 . 2 fccc/cp/2015/8 , annex v. 3 see global environment facility document gef/a.5/07/rev.01 . available at
n ( november 2016 ) ; 8. requests the global environment facility to carry out a t echnical review of the programme priorities of the least developed countries fund , taking into account the independent review referred to in paragraph 6 above , and to focus the technical review on , inter alia : ( 
technical review on , inter alia : ( a ) undertaking pilot concrete climate change acti vities that are particularly relevant for the least developed countries ; ( b ) enhancing longer -term institutional capacity to design and execute the activities referred to in paragraph 8 ( a ) above ; 9. urge
otherf not applicable domestic currency usd domestic currency usd multilateral climate change funds 1. global environment facility 2. least developed countries fund 3. special climate change fund 4. adaptation fund 5. green climate fund 6. unfccc trust fund for supplementary activities 7. other mul
mplementation of the activities referred to in decision 1/cp.16 , paragraph 70 ........ 15 19/cp . 21 extension of the mandate of the least developed countries expert group .............. 16 20/cp.21 technical review in 2016 of greenhouse gas inventories from parties included in annex i to the conv
ontinues to be a challenge for the implementation of article 6 of the convention for parties , in particu lar african countries , the least developed countries and small island developing states , reaffirming the importance of taking into account gender aspects and the need to promote the effective
 meeting 10 december 2015 1 < http : //unfccc.int/4531 > . fccc/cp/2015/10/add.3 16 decision 19/cp.21 extension of the mandate of the least developed countries expert group the conference of the parties , recalling decisions 5/cp.7 , 7/cp.7 , 27/cp.7 , 28/cp.7 , 29/cp.7 , 7/cp.9 , 4/cp.10 , 4/cp.11
 4/cp.11 , 8/cp.13 , 6/cp.16 , 3/cp.17 , 5/cp.17 , 12/cp.18 and 3/cp.20 , recognizing the specific needs and special situation of the least developed countries under article 4 , paragraph 9 , of the convention , having considered the reports on the meetings of the least developed countries expert g
he least developed countries under article 4 , paragraph 9 , of the convention , having considered the reports on the meetings of the least developed countries expert group , the views of parties on the work of the least developed countries expert group , t he report on the stocktaking meeting on t
having considered the reports on the meetings of the least developed countries expert group , the views of parties on the work of the least developed countries expert group , t he report on the stocktaking meeting on the work of the least developed countries expert group and the synthesis report on
iews of parties on the work of the least developed countries expert group , t he report on the stocktaking meeting on the work of the least developed countries expert group and the synthesis report on the progress , need for continuation and terms of reference of the least developed countries exper
least developed countries expert group and the synthesis report on the progress , need for continuation and terms of reference of the least developed countries expert group,1 noting the importance of t he least developed countries expert group as a body that provides high -quality and relevant info
progress , need for continuation and terms of reference of the least developed countries expert group,1 noting the importance of t he least developed countries expert group as a body that provides high -quality and relevant information on adaptation for the least developed countries , also noting t
e of t he least developed countries expert group as a body that provides high -quality and relevant information on adaptation for the least developed countries , also noting that the least developed country parties continue to require support for , inter alia , the p rocess to formulate and impleme
ational adaptation plans , engagement with the green climate fund , regional approaches to adaptation , and the implementation of the least developed countries work programme , 1. decides to extend the mandate of the least devel oped countries expert group under its current terms of reference ; 2 2
o extend the mandate of the least devel oped countries expert group under its current terms of reference ; 2 2. also decides that the least developed countries expert group should be mandated to provide technical guidance and advice on : ( a ) the integration of climate change adaptation into natio
t and the decisions adopted by the conference of the parties at its twenty -first session , as determined by parties ; 3. invites the least developed countries expert group to consider the need to update the least developed countries work programme and to make recommendations for consideration by t
 -first session , as determined by parties ; 3. invites the least developed countries expert group to consider the need to update the least developed countries work programme and to make recommendations for consideration by the subsidiary body for implementation at its forty -eighth session ( april
s being forwarded to the conference of the parties at its twenty -fourth session ( november 2018 ) , as appropriate ; 4. requests the least developed countries expert group , in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2 above , when developing its two -year rolling work programme to take into account the 
to account the compilation of elements contained in annex i to document fcc c/sbi/2015/8 and the compilation of gaps and needs in the least developed countries , considered at this session ; 4 5. also requests the least developed countries expert group to invite the green climate fund secretariat t
i/2015/8 and the compilation of gaps and needs in the least developed countries , considered at this session ; 4 5. also requests the least developed countries expert group to invite the green climate fund secretariat to its meetings , as appropriate ; 6. furthe r requests the least developed count
loped countries expert group to invite the green climate fund secretariat to its meetings , as appropriate ; 6. furthe r requests the least developed countries expert group , recognizing its good collaboration with the global environment facility , to continue to invite the global environment facil
cluding by inviting members of these bodies to participate , as appropriate , in its meetings ; 8. decides that the membership of the least developed countries exper t group should remain at 13 members ; 9. encourages the least developed countries expert group to invite representatives of regional 
tings ; 8. decides that the membership of the least developed countries exper t group should remain at 13 members ; 9. encourages the least developed countries expert group to invite representatives of regional centres or networks to its meetings as observers , as appropriate ; 10. also encourages 
oup to invite representatives of regional centres or networks to its meetings as observers , as appropriate ; 10. also encourages the least developed countries expert group to invite relevant regional centres to nominate one focal point each for the least developed countries expert group with a vie
so encourages the least developed countries expert group to invite relevant regional centres to nominate one focal point each for the least developed countries expert group with a view to enhancing collaboration with those centres ; 11. invites the least developed countries expert group to invite r
point each for the least developed countries expert group with a view to enhancing collaboration with those centres ; 11. invites the least developed countries expert group to invite representatives of global programmes , projects and/or networks that support the process to formulate and implement 
ences and lessons learned ; 12. decides that , in accordance with decision 7/cp.9 , paragraph 2 , new experts may be nominated to the least developed countries expert group or existing members of the group may continue in office , as determined by the respective regions or groups , taking into acco
ph 2 ; 13. also decides to review , at its twenty -sixth session , the progress , need for continuation and terms of reference of the least developed countries expert group , with a view to adopting a decision thereon , taking into account , as appropriate , new processes and needs that may arise p
dy for implementation to init iate the re view referred to in paragraph 13 above at its fifty - second session : ( a ) to request the least developed countries expert group to convene before june 2020 , with the assistance of the secretariat , a meeting with representatives of parties and rele vant
c/sbi/2015/inf.6 and fccc/sbi/2015/inf.14 . fccc/cp/2015/10/add.3 18 ( b ) to invite parties to submit their views on the work of the least developed countries expert group via the submissions portal5 by 1 february 2020 , for consideration by the subsidiary bo dy for implementation at its fif ty-se
 ( d ) to request the secretariat to prepare a synthesis report on the progress , need for continuation and terms of reference of the least developed countries expert group based on submissions from parties , reports of the least developed countries expert gr oup , the report of the stocktaking mee
 continuation and terms of reference of the least developed countries expert group based on submissions from parties , reports of the least developed countries expert gr oup , the report of the stocktaking meeting referred to in paragraph 1 4 ( c ) above and other relevant information for considera
tation at its fifty-second session , as input to the review ; 15. requests the secretariat to cont inue to facilitate the work of the least developed countries expert group . 10th plenary meeting 10 december 2015 5 < http : //www.unfccc.int/5900 > . fccc/cp/2015/10/add.3 19 decision 2 0/cp.21 techn
daptation to climate change 1 301 172 23 supporting the implementation of the cancun adaptation framework 5 340 425 24 supporting the least developed countries and the least developed countries expert group 3 389 096 25 supporting activities relating to climate change science , research and systema
172 23 supporting the implementation of the cancun adaptation framework 5 340 425 24 supporting the least developed countries and the least developed countries expert group 3 389 096 25 supporting activities relating to climate change science , research and systematic observation 534 230 26 support
serve in their personal capacity : ( a ) two members from each of the five united nations regional groups ; ( b ) one member from the least developed countries ; ( c ) one member from the small island developing states . 3. six representatives from bodies established unde r the convention and from 
ion between the adaptation committee and other constituted bodies and institutional arrangements under the convention , including the least developed countries expert group , the nairobi work programme on impacts , vulnerability and adaptation to climate change , the tec hnology executive committee
ination process on adaptation , consisting of members of the standing committee on finance , the technology executive committee , the least developed countries expe rt group and observer constituencies ; 7. requests the adaptation committee , in conducting the technical examination process on adapt
.17 , 5/cp.17 , 12/cp.18 , 18/cp.19 , 3/cp.20 , 1/cp.21 and 4/cp.21 , welcoming the progress made by the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group in the fulfilment o f their respective mandates relating to providing information on accessing funding from the green climate 
ragraph 4 above in order to advance the formulation of their national adaptation plans ; 7. requests the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group to continue their respecti ve engagement with the green climate fund and to continue to include information on that engagement
 ion plans were technically cleared by the global environment facility but , as at 10 november 2016 , were awaiting funding under the least developed countries fund ; 10. encourages developed country parties to contribute to the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund and
2016 , were awaiting funding under the least developed countries fund ; 10. encourages developed country parties to contribute to the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund and invites additional voluntary financial contributions to the least developed countries fund , t
he least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund and invites additional voluntary financial contributions to the least developed countries fund , the special climate change fund and other funds under the financial mechanism , as appropriate , recognizing the importance of the p
e further enhanced ; ( d ) access to adaptation finance remains a challenge , particularly for small island developing states and the least developed countries ; ( e ) better information needs to be generated for more efficient planning , including through enhanced tracking of adaptation fl ows ; (
tation finance , differences in the assumptions of underlying formulas to attribute finance from multilateral development banks ( mdbs ) to developed countries , the classification of data as ‘ green finance ’ and incomplete data on non-concessional flo ws . 7. the limitations outlined above need t
erview of climate finance flows identifies the improvements listed below in the tracking and reporting of infor mation on climate finance : developed countries ( a ) enabling parties to provide additional information on their underlying definitions , methodologies and assumptions used , including o
ation of a joint methodology for tracking public and private climate co -finance by a consortium of seven mdbs . insights into reporting by developed countries and developing countries 9. the current biennial report ( br ) guidelines5 were designed to accommodate reporting on a wide range of climat
7 billion in 2014. the methodology used in the 2014 biennial assessment and overview of climate finance flows to attribute mdb finance from developed countries to developing countries suggests that usd 11.4 billion in 2013 and usd 12.7 billion in 2014 was delivered by developed countries . a more a
nance from developed countries to developing countries suggests that usd 11.4 billion in 2013 and usd 12.7 billion in 2014 was delivered by developed countries . a more advanced methodology , which captures better the mobilization effect through the mdbs , suggests that usd 14.9 billion in 2013 and
 united states agency for international development a adaptation fund , global environment facility , special climate change fund and least developed countries fund . no green climate fund projects were approved during 2013 –2014 . b the values for bilateral financ e are based on biennial report da
roved climate funds and 56 per cent of the bilateral finance reported to the oecd dac with adaptation as a principal objective . some least developed countries and small island developing states in africa and asia have been among the largest recipients of adaptation finance . 29. about 33 per cent 
efficient application and approval procedures , and through continued readiness support to developing country parties , including the least developed countries and small island developing states , as ap propriate , and in accordance with board decisions ; 3 in decision 1/cp.16 , paragraph 70 , the 
s the board to implement its decision b.04/08 to develop modalities to support a ctivities enabling private sector involvement in the least developed countries and small island developing states , and to seek opportunities to engage with the private sector , including local actors , on adaptation a
ity to the conference of the parties and its addend a report s , including on the technical review of the programme priorities of the least developed countries fund,1 noting the draft decision on the guidance to the global environment facility prepared by the standing committee on finance , as cont
chanism of the convention , in its seventh replenishment programming , to continue to assist developing countries , in particular the least developed countries and small island developing states , in accessing resources in an efficient manner ; 4. also reque sts the global environment facility , as
ment , and to conti nue to promote synergies across its focal areas ; 14. welcomes the conclusions of the “ program evaluation of the least developed countries fund ” by the global environment facility ’ s independent evaluation office ; 7 15. requests the global environment facility , as t he oper
obal environment facility , as t he operating entity of the financial mechanism of the convention entrusted with the operation of the least developed countries fund , to continue to enhance capacity development in the least developed countries for the development of project proposals with a focus o
he convention entrusted with the operation of the least developed countries fund , to continue to enhance capacity development in the least developed countries for the development of project proposals with a focus on identifying potential funding sources , both national and international , and enha
courages the global environment facility to continue to track , review and report on the sustainability of projec t outcomes from the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund ; 4 global environment facility document gef/c.50/05 . 5 global environment facility document gef/
nt facility ( gef ) to the cop on its activities as an operating entity of the financial mechanism , including the information on the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund , and other relevant gef po licy and information documents ; ( e ) the reports from the gef indepe
m 2014 to 2020 , including any available information on quantitative and qualitative elements of a pathway ; ( n ) the reports of the least developed countries expert group and the consultative group of experts on national communications from parties not included in annex i to the convention . c. c
continue to provide financial resources to parties not included in annex i to the conv ention , in particular african countries , the least developed countries and small island developing states , in order to support activities related to the implementation of article 6 of the convention ; 12. invi
 finance ; 8. welcomes with appreciation the pledges and announcements of parties , including pledges to the green climate fund , the least developed countries fund and the adaptation fund , and of international financial institutions , which provide further clarity to and predictability of climate
facility , forest investment program , global climate change alliance , global environment facility trust fund , green climate fund , least developed countries fund , partnership for market readiness , pilot programme for climate resi lience , scaling up renewable energy program , special climate c
ica received just 9 per cent of mdb financing but 30 per cent of bilateral finance reported to oecd . 42. with regard to flows to the least developed countries ( ldcs ) and small island developing states ( sids ) in the period 2015 –2016 , funding directed at the ldcs represented 24 per cent of bil
to suggest that the alignment of administrative functions between funds ( e.g . the global environment facility administration of the least developed countries fund and special climate change fund ) offers the best opportunity to keep administrativ e costs down . this is essential in order to retai
ountry parties that provide support to report information on climate finance provided to other developing country parties ; ( g ) encourage developed countries and climate finance providers , as well as multilateral and financial institutions , pri vate finance data providers and other relevant ins
capacity for progra mming their priority climate action , as well as tracking climate finance , effectiveness and impacts ; ( l ) encourage developed countries and climate finance providers to continue to enhance country ownership and consider policies to balance funding for adapt ation and mitigat
gress on adaptation ; 9. notes that funding has been made available for developing country parties under the green climate fund , the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund for the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans , and that other channels of 
r other adaptation planning processes amounting to usd 81 million , of which 6 proposals , amounting to usd 15 million , are from the least developed countries ; 11. also welcomes the approval by the least devel oped countries fund of 11 proposals , as at 30 september 2018 , from the least develope
ountries ; 11. also welcomes the approval by the least devel oped countries fund of 11 proposals , as at 30 september 2018 , from the least developed countries for funding for the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans amounting to usd 55 million ; 12. notes the value of engag
agement of the agrifood sector in resilience to climate change ; 4 14. welcomes the progress made by the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group in th eir respective engagement with the green climate fund on ways to enhance the process of accessing support for the formul
lans and within its existing mandate and workplan , to consider gaps and needs that have been identified through relevant work of the least developed countries expert group and the adaptation committee and how to address them , and include relevant information thereon in its annual report for 2019 
cted by and at risk of displacement related to the adverse impacts of climate cha nge ; ( e ) invite the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group , in accordance with their mandates and workplans , and in collaboration with the executive committee , to assist developing c
 the paris committee on capacity -building ................................ ................................ ............. 6 16/cp.24 least developed countries work programme ................................ .... 7 17/cp.24 dates and venues of future sessions ................................ ......
accordance with decision 1/cp.21 , paragraph 80 . 2 fccc/sbi/2018/15 , paragraph 8 ( a ) . fccc/cp/2018/ 10/add.2 7 decision 16/cp.24 least developed countries work programme the conference of the parties , recalling decisions 5/cp.7 , 29/cp.7 , 4/cp.11 , 8/cp.13 , 6/cp.16 , 5/cp.17 , 12/cp.18 , 3/
/cp.13 , 6/cp.16 , 5/cp.17 , 12/cp.18 , 3/cp.20 , 4/cp.21 and 19/cp.21 , recognizing the specific needs and special situations of the least developed countries referred to in article 4 , paragraph 9 , of the convention , having considered the report on the 33rd meeting of the least developed countr
eloped countries referred to in article 4 , paragraph 9 , of the convention , having considered the report on the 33rd meeting of the least developed countries expert group and the views of parties on the least developed countries work programme , acknowledging that , because of their development s
tion , having considered the report on the 33rd meeting of the least developed countries expert group and the views of parties on the least developed countries work programme , acknowledging that , because of their development status , climate change risks magnify the development challenges for the
allenges for the least developed country parties , also acknowledging that the human , infrastructural and economic conditions of the least developed countries severely limit their capacities to participate effectively in the climate change process , noting the particular support needs of the least
severely limit their capacities to participate effectively in the climate change process , noting the particular support needs of the least developed countries with respect to addressing climate change , and the importance of the least developed countries work programme in this regard , also noting
g the particular support needs of the least developed countries with respect to addressing climate change , and the importance of the least developed countries work programme in this regard , also noting the relevance of climate change action to the achievement of the sustainable development goals 
 the implementation of the elements of the work programme for the implementation of article 4 , paragraph 9 , of the convention ( the least developed countries work programme ) contained in decision 5/cp.7 , paragraphs 11 –17 ; 2. takes note of the support provided to the least developed countries 
 developed countries work programme ) contained in decision 5/cp.7 , paragraphs 11 –17 ; 2. takes note of the support provided to the least developed countries for the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans ; 2 3. decides to update the elements of the least developed countries
developed countries for the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans ; 2 3. decides to update the elements of the least developed countries work programme as listed below in order to reflect the needs of the lea st developed countries , taking full account of the numerous groups
 decides to update the elements of the least developed countries work programme as listed below in order to reflect the needs of the lea st developed countries , taking full account of the numerous groups and bodies that are involved in assisting countries with these activities , noting the importa
 ; ( b ) continue providing training , as needed , in negotiating skills and language to develop the capacity of negotiators from the least developed countries to participate effectively in the climate change process ; ( c ) supporting the process to formulate and implement nationa l adaptation pla
 the paris agreement , as needed ; 4. notes that support for the work programme should come from a variety of sources , including the least developed countries fund,3 the global environment facility , the green climate fund , and other bilateral and mu ltilateral sources within their respective man
ther bilateral and mu ltilateral sources within their respective mandates , and the private sector , as appropriate ; 5. requests the least developed countries expert group to support , and encourages other relevant bodies and programmes under and outside the convention and the paris agreement , in
 united nations entities , to assist with , in accordance with their respective mandates , as appropriate , the implementation of the least developed countries work programme and to include information on this in their reports , as appropria te ; 6. also requests the least developed countries exper
least developed countries work programme and to include information on this in their reports , as appropria te ; 6. also requests the least developed countries expert group to continue considering ways to promote south –south cooperation in the implementation of the least developed countries work p
 least developed countries expert group to continue considering ways to promote south –south cooperation in the implementation of the least developed countries work programme . 7th plenary meeting 13 december 2018 3 see decision 5/cp.7 , paragraph 12. fccc/cp/2018/ 10/add.2 9 decision 17/cp.24 date
se that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change and have significant capaci ty constraints , such as the least developed countries and small island developing states , considering the need for public and grant -based resources for adaptation ; 15. underlines the essenti
well as funds to support the participation of grass -roots local and indigenous peoples ’ communities from developing countries , the least developed countries and small island developing states , and encourage parti es and relevant organizations to share information on travel funding leading : par
mposed of 14 members , of which : ( a ) two members from each of the five u nited nations regional groups ; ( b ) one member from the least developed countries ; ( c ) one member from the small island developing states ; ( d ) two members from relevant intergovernmental organizations.1 5. by the sa
apping with the previous reporting periods , including , as appropriate , the following : ( a ) the global environment facility , the least developed countries fund , the special climate change f und , the adaptation fund , the green climate fund and the unfccc trust fund for supplementary activiti
otherf not applicable domestic currency usd domestic currency usd multilateral climate change funds 1. global environment facility 2. least developed countries fund 3. special climate change fund 4. adaptation fund 5. green climate fund 6. unfccc trust fund for supplementary activities 7. other mul
ing th e total number of submitted national adaptation plans to 17 ; 1 2. takes note of the work of the a daptation committee and the least developed countries expert group on gaps and needs related to the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans , including the gaps and needs c
 its forty -seventh session ; 3 3. requests the a daptation committee , through its task force on national adaptation plans , and the least developed countries expert group to continue to include in their report s information on the gaps and needs related to the process to formulate and implement n
w to address them ; 4. invites constituted bodies and other organizations to provide informat ion to the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group on activities unde rtaken to address gaps and needs related to the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plan
l adaptation plans ; 6. notes that funding has been made available for developing country parties under the green climate fund , the l east developed countries fund and the s pecial climate change fund for the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans , and that other chann els o
tion , at its fifty -third session ( n ovember 2020 ) , to consider information from the reports of the a daptation committee and the least developed countries expert group , including on gaps and needs and the implementation of national adaptation plans , and to take further action as appropriate 
rk and the technology executive committee ; ( k ) the collaboration between the green climate fund , the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group ; ( l ) the steps agreed at the 24th meeting of the board to finalize , at the 25th meeting of the board , the draft strategic
f climate change projects and programmes approved during the reporting period under the global environm ent facility trust fund , the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund ; ( b ) the approval of minimum requirements fo r global environment facility trust fund agencies 
n monitoring6 and the evaluation policy ; 7 3. welcomes with appreci ation the contributions made by developed country parties to the least developed countries fund during the reporting period , amounting to usd 184 million,8 and the contribution made by switzerland to the special climate change fu
facility to consider : ( a ) exploring ways to include in the fourth phase of the global project on technology needs ass essments the least developed countries and small island developing states that have never undertaken a t echnology needs assessment and have not been included in the fourth phase
s in collecting and managing information and data on adaptation ; 10. requests the global environment facility , in administering the least developed countries fund , to continue facilitating the smooth transition of countries graduating from least develop ed country status by continuing to provide
 smooth transition of countries graduating from least develop ed country status by continuing to provide approved funding through the least developed countries fund until the completion of projects approved by the least developed countries fund council prior to those countries ’ graduation from lea
by continuing to provide approved funding through the least developed countries fund until the completion of projects approved by the least developed countries fund council prior to those countries ’ graduation from least developed country status ; 11. takes note of decision 7/cma.2 and decides to 
ation of response measures , lcipp fwg = facilitativ e working group of the local communities and indigenous peoples platform , leg = least developed countries expert group , nap = national adaptatio n plan , nazca = non-state actor zone for climate action , ndc = nationally determined contribution
 ................................................................................................ 27 10/cp.27 matters relating to the least developed countries ............................................................ 29 11/cp.27 santiago network for averting , minimizing and addressing loss and
g for the formulation and implementation of national adaptation plans and adaptation communication s ; 23. highlights the role of the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund in supporting actions by developing countries to address climate change , 7 decision 1/cp.26 , par
 to address climate change , 7 decision 1/cp.26 , para . 19. fccc/cp/2022/10/add.1 5 welcomes the pledges made to the two funds and invites developed countries to further contribute to the two funds ; 24. emphasizes the importance of protecting , conserving and restoring water and water - related e
 and u rges developed country parties to meet the goal ; 11 37. emphasizes that accelerated financial support for developing countries from developed countries and other sources is critical to enhancing mitigation action and addressing inequities in access to finance , including its costs , terms a
ree members from latin america and the caribbean ; ( d ) two members from small island developing states ; ( e ) two members from the least developed countries ; ( f ) one member from a developing country party not included in the categories listed above . iii . modalities of work 5. the transition
onstituted bodies , the operating entities of the financial mechanism , 6 the adaptation fund , the special climate change fund , the least developed countries fund and observer organizations in works hops under the koronivia joint work on agriculture ; 6. acknowledges that the koronivia joint work
between parties , constituted b odies and workstreams , the operating entities of the financial mechanism , the adaptation fund , the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund in order to facilitate the implementation of action to address issues related to agricultu re and 
atives of the constituted bodies under the convention , the operating entities of the financial mechanism , the adaptation fund , the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund and observers to them ; 16. decides to establish the sharm el- sheikh online portal under the join
ation plans1 and takes note of other relevant documents ; 2 2. welcomes the information provided by the adaptation committee3 and the least developed countries expert group4 on gaps and needs related to the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans and progress in implementing na
 plans , particularly in relation to the submission and review of proposals for funding ; 5. invites the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group , in line with their mandates , to continue formulating recommendations on ways to facilitate the mobilization of support for 
the recommendations to the standing committee on finance for consideration ; 6. welcomes the work of the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group on gaps and needs related to the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans , including the needs referred t
as requested by the subsidiary body for implementation at its forty- seventh session ; 9 7. requests the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group to continue to identify the priority gaps and needs of developing countries relat ed to the process to formulate and implement
vailable at https : //unfccc.int/topics/resilience/resources/documents -of-the-adaptation -committee , and the meeting reports of the least developed countries expert group f or 2019 –2022 , available at https : //unfccc.int/topics/resilience/resources/documents -on-the -ldc-expert -group . 3 see d
ision 7/cp.25 , para . 3 . 9 fccc/sbi/2017/19 , para . 73. fccc/cp/2022/10/add.1 28 8. also requests the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group to enhance their work in addressing the priority gaps and needs , obstacles and challenges identified through their work refer
s ; 10. invites other unfccc constituted bodies and relevant organizations to provide information to the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group on activities that have the aim of addressing gaps and needs related to the process to form ulate and implement national adapt
pport ; 11. notes that the technical resources developed and the scientific resources synthesized by the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group can assist developing countries in addressing gaps and needs related to the process to formulate and implement national adapta
ersity press . available at https : //www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg2 . fccc/cp/2022/10/add.1 29 decision 10/cp.27 matters relating to the least developed countries the conference of the parties and the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement , recalling de
 1/cp.21 , 19/cp.21 , 16/cp.24 , 7/cp.25 , 15/cp.26 , 11/cma.1 and 19/cma.1 , having considered the report on the 42nd meeting of the least developed countries expert group,1 underscoring the importance of continued implementation by the green climate fund of the mandate given to it in decision 1/c
plementation by the green climate fund of the mandate given to it in decision 1/cp.21 , paragraph 46 , 1. welcome the progress of the least developed countries expert group in implementing its work programme for 2022– 2023,2 including its provision of support to the least developed countries for de
 least developed countries expert group in implementing its work programme for 2022– 2023,2 including its provision of support to the least developed countries for developing project concepts for implementing adaptation actions associated with the priorities in their national adaptation plans ; 3 2
daptation actions associated with the priorities in their national adaptation plans ; 3 2. also welcome the successful conduct by the least developed countries expert group of the national adaptation plan writing workshop for asia -pacific least developed countries held in siem reap , cambodia , fr
e successful conduct by the least developed countries expert group of the national adaptation plan writing workshop for asia -pacific least developed countries held in siem reap , cambodia , from 12 to 15 july 2022 and the nap expo held in gaborone , botswana , from 22 to 26 august 2022 ; 3. expres
ambodia for hosting the workshop referred to in paragraph 2 above and the government of botswana for hosting the 42 nd meeting of the least developed countries expert group and nap expo 2022 and express their gratitude to the government of ireland for providing financial support for the work of the
 group and nap expo 2022 and express their gratitude to the government of ireland for providing financial support for the work of the least developed countries expert group ; 4. express their appreciation to the le ast developed countries expert group and the secretariat for their valuable work in 
nd for providing financial support for the work of the least developed countries expert group ; 4. express their appreciation to the le ast developed countries expert group and the secretariat for their valuable work in supporting adaptation in the least developed countries ; 5. also express their 
preciation to the le ast developed countries expert group and the secretariat for their valuable work in supporting adaptation in the least developed countries ; 5. also express their appreciation to the organizations that contributed to designing and conducting the workshop referred to in paragrap
nizations that contributed to designing and conducting the workshop referred to in paragraph 2 above ; 6. welcome the progress of the least developed countries expert group in developing technical guidelines for the implementation of national adaptation plans4 and note that those guidelines may hel
 the design and provision of support for the implementation of national adaptation plans ; 7. also n ote the limited progres s of the least developed countries on the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans and the need for enhanced support of the least developed countries to a
east developed countries on the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans and the need for enhanced support of the least developed countries to advance the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans ; 8. further note that , as at 14 november 2022 , 17 of the 46 
vance the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans ; 8. further note that , as at 14 november 2022 , 17 of the 46 least developed countries had submitted a national adaptation plan since the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans was established in 2010 , a
onal adaptation plan since the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans was established in 2010 , and of those 17 least developed countries with a national adaptation plan , 14 had accessed funding for implementing adaptation actions associated with the priorities identified the
add.1 30 9. reiterate and recall decision 1/cp.21 , paragraph 46 , and note decision 16/cp.27 in relation to enhancing support to the least developed countries for the formulation and implementation of national adaptation plans ; 10. underscore the importance of developing project pipelines and pro
t pipelines and proposals for implementing adaptation actions associated w ith the priorities in the national adaptation plans of the least developed countries and encourage relevant organizations , as well as operating entities of the f inancial mechanism , to enhance support to the least develope
ountries and encourage relevant organizations , as well as operating entities of the f inancial mechanism , to enhance support to the least developed countries in this regard ; 11. note wi th appreciation the financial pledges , totalling usd 70.6 million , made by the governments of denmark , finl
 denmark , finland , germany , ireland , slovenia , sweden and switzerland and the government of the walloon region of belgium to the least developed countries fund and urge additional contributions to the fund ; 12. request the least developed countries expert group to enhance the support provided
f the walloon region of belgium to the least developed countries fund and urge additional contributions to the fund ; 12. request the least developed countries expert group to enhance the support provided to the least developed countries for aligning national adaptation plans and nationally determi
 additional contributions to the fund ; 12. request the least developed countries expert group to enhance the support provided to the least developed countries for aligning national adaptation plans and nationally determined contributions ; 13. also request the least developed countries expert grou
o the least developed countries for aligning national adaptation plans and nationally determined contributions ; 13. also request the least developed countries expert group to continue to support the least developed countries in integrating gender considerations into the formulation and implementat
lans and nationally determined contributions ; 13. also request the least developed countries expert group to continue to support the least developed countries in integrating gender considerations into the formulation and implementation of national adaptation plans ; 14. welcome the development by 
ating gender considerations into the formulation and implementation of national adaptation plans ; 14. welcome the development by the least developed countries expert group of its draft rules of procedure ; 15. adopt the rules of procedure of the least developed countries expert group contained in 
e development by the least developed countries expert group of its draft rules of procedure ; 15. adopt the rules of procedure of the least developed countries expert group contained in the annex ; 16. encourage the least developed countries expert group to prioritize the implementation of the elem
procedure ; 15. adopt the rules of procedure of the least developed countries expert group contained in the annex ; 16. encourage the least developed countries expert group to prioritize the implementation of the elements of its mandate in accordance with the needs of the least developed countries 
 developed countries expert group to prioritize the implementation of the elements of its mandate in accordance with the needs of the least developed countries and the availability of resources ; 17. invite parties and relevant organizations to continue to provide resources to support implementatio
17. invite parties and relevant organizations to continue to provide resources to support implementation of the work programme of the least developed countries expert group . fccc/cp/2022/10/add.1 31 annex rules of procedure of the least developed countries expert group i. scope 1. these rules of p
tation of the work programme of the least developed countries expert group . fccc/cp/2022/10/add.1 31 annex rules of procedure of the least developed countries expert group i. scope 1. these rules of procedure shall apply to the least developed countries expert group ( leg ) in conjunction with 5/c
d.1 31 annex rules of procedure of the least developed countries expert group i. scope 1. these rules of procedure shall apply to the least developed countries expert group ( leg ) in conjunction with 5/cp.7 , 29/cp.7 , 7/cp.9 , 4/cp.10 , 4/cp.11 , 8/cp.13 , 6/cp.16 , 5/cp.17 , 12/cp.18 , 3/cp . 20
gional groups and constituencies . the composition of the leg shall be as follows : 1 ( a ) five members from african states that are least developed countries ( ldcs ) ; ( b ) two members from asia -pacific states that are ldcs ; ( c ) two members from small island developing states that are ldcs 
 . 17. the chair shall perform the following functions : 2 officers shall be elected in accordance with the terms of reference of the least developed countries expert group contained in the annex to decision 29/cp.7 , and as per the decision of the leg to also appoint a lusophone ra pporteur . fccc
of the following : ( a ) two members from each of the five recognized united nations regional groups ; ( b ) one member each from the least developed countries and small island developing states ; ( c ) two members of the executive committee , nominated by the executive committee from among its mem
eveloping country parties in accordance with decision 1/cp.16 ; 2. also recalls that , in accordance with decision 1/cp.21 , paragraph 53 , developed countries reaffirmed the continuation of their existing collective mobilization goal through 2025 in the context of meaningful mitigation action s an
e significant role of public funds ; 5. welcomes the recent pledges made to the adaptation fund ( totalling usd 211.6 million ) , the least developed countries fund ( totalling usd 70.6 million ) , the special climate change fund ( totalling usd 35.0 million ) and the eighth replenishment of the gl
 7. reiterates the need for grant -based resources in developing countries , in particular for adaptation , and in particular for the least developed countries and small island developing states ; 8. also reiterates that a significant amount of adaptation finance should flow through the operating e
ficant amount of adaptation finance should flow through the operating entities of the financial mechanism , the adaptation fund , the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund ; 9. emphasizes the need for further efforts to e nhance access to climate finance , including thr
uniform across data sources . as for previous bas , for the fifth ba , no aggregation of data from different sources for finance flows from developed countries to de veloping countries was carried out owing to these challenges and limitations . the scf will continue to contribute , through its acti
5 trillion ) up until the end of 2020. approximately 76 per cent ( usd 392 billion ) of climate -related recovery spending was announced by developed countries and the remainder by developing countries , particularly those in asia . data from climate budget tagging systems and other sources indicat
c climate finance amounted to usd 134 billion per year in 2019 –2020 , half of which was in 21 developing countries and the other half in 6 developed countries or jurisdictions . figure 2 climate finance flows in 20 19–2020 ( billions of united states dollars , annualized ) fccc/cp/2022/10/add.2 11
he fifth ba for further information ; ( 4 ) figure note ( c ) : estimates include private finance mobilized through public interventions by developed countries ; ( 5 ) figure note ( d ) : this includes private finance in addition to finance mobilized through bila teral and multilateral channels and
ived by public or private sector entities from developed or developing countries . oecd estimates that private climate finance mobilized by developed countries through bilateral and multilateral channels amounted to usd 14.4 b illion and usd 13.1 billion in 2019 and 2020 respectively . the annual a
bil lion for projects starting in 2020. approximately 81 per cent of the 2019 amount was specified as coming from bilateral institutions in developed countries or multilateral institutions and 15 per cent from institutions based in developing countries ; the or igin of the finance was unspecified f
bution of climate finance by volume and on a per capita basis in 2019–2020 25. between 2016 and 2020 , private climate finance mobilized by developed countries for developing countries through bilateral and multilateral channels totalled usd 66.8 billion . of this amount , 86 per cent was mobilized
ge climate finance and data providers to further improve the data and the methodologies necessary for tracking private finance mobilized by developed countries , and others in a position to do so , through technical assistance , policy support and other public interventions for climate action in de
iorities ; ( b ) encourage climate finance providers to enhance access and increase climate finance for the ldcs and sids ; ( c ) encourage developed countries , other climate finance providers and recipients to continue to enhance access to climate finance , including by addressing the barriers to
the continued collaboration of the green climate fund with the adaptation committee , the climate technology centre and network , the least developed countries expert group and the technology executive committee ; 4. requests the board to ensure that the conditions it applies to projects are not in
untries that are particularly vulne rable to the adverse effects of climate change ; 15. invites the board to enhance support for the least developed countries , small island developing states and other developing countries in developing project pipelines and proposals , as well as for adaptation a
 during the eighth replenishment period ; 6. welcomes the increased allocation of resources to small island developing states and the least developed countries in the eighth replenishment of the global environmen t facility under the system for transparent allocation of resources , including throug
degradation . 4 global environment facility council document gef/c.59/07/rev.01 . fccc/cp/2022/10/add.2 28 financial resources to the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund in line with the global environment facility ’ s 2022 –2026 programming str ategy on adaptation to
change fund in line with the global environment facility ’ s 2022 –2026 programming str ategy on adaptation to climate change for the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund ; 5 8. also encourages the global environment facility , in administering the least developed coun
oped countries fund and the special climate change fund ; 5 8. also encourages the global environment facility , in administering the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund , to support developing country parties in implementing national adaptation plans and other nation
and other national adaptation planning processes and urges developed country parties to increase their voluntary contributions to the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund ; 9. encourages the global environment facility to work towards implementing its programming strat
urages the global environment facility to work towards implementing its programming strategy on adaptat ion to climate change for the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund during the eighth replenishment of the global environment facility so as to effectively assist dev
eviations : ac = adap tation committee , apa = ad hoc working group on the paris agreement , cop = conference o f the parties , leg = least developed countries expert group , ndc = nationally determined contribution , sbi = subsidiary body for implementation , sbsta = subsidiary body for scientific
ns at unfccc sessions , including those from grass -roots , local and indigenous peoples communities from developing co untries , the least developed countries and small island developing states parties , secretariat and observer organizations 2018 –2019 promotion of funds b.2 include in regular no
ion to support 130 requests in 92 countries through the readiness and preparatory support programme , two thirds of which are in t he least developed countries , small island developing states and african states ; and ( 2 ) usd 2.65 billion to support 54 projects and programmes in 73 countries ; ( 
her consider ways to improve its access modalities for developing c ountry parties , including small island developing states and the least developed countries ; 1 fccc/cp/2017/7 . 2 see the j oint summary of the chairs of the 52nd global environment facility council meeting , paragraphs 24 and 25.
ized in bonn , germany 1 017 582 option 2 : support for one delegate from each eligible party plus a second delegate from each of the least developed countries and each small island developing state to participate in a two -week session organized in bonn 1 561 042 option 3 : support for two delegat
sion organized in bonn 2 035 164 option 4 : support for two delegates from each eligible party plus a third delegate from each of the least developed countries and each small island developing state to participate in a two -week session organized in poland 2 880 338 note : report of the conference 
ation in developing country parties in response to their growing needs , including contributions made to the adapta tion fund and the least developed countries fund , which represent significant progress compared with previous efforts ; 14. calls upon multilateral development banks , other financia
pond to the scale of needs caused by the adverse impacts of climate change ; 45. resolves to strengthen partnerships between developing and developed countries , funds , technical agencies , civil society and communities to enhance understanding of how approaches to averting , minimizing and addres
 national focal points with a view to enhancing the dissemination of information between parties and the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group , as well as other releva nt organizations and programme partners , such as partners of the nairobi work programme on impacts 
ns in making progress towards the global goal on adaptation , taking note of the potential capacity of the open nap initiative of the least developed countries expert group to accelerate the for mulation and implementation of national adaptation plans in the least developed countries and inviting o
e of the least developed countries expert group to accelerate the for mulation and implementation of national adaptation plans in the least developed countries and inviting other developing countries to take part in this initiative , recognizing the continued support of the adaptation committee , t
ting other developing countries to take part in this initiative , recognizing the continued support of the adaptation committee , the least developed countries expert group and the secretariat to developing country parties on the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans , despit
 above , information from relevant events , including the nap expos , and information from other relevant sources ; ( d ) request the least developed countries expert group , in collaboration with the adaptation committee , to organize a meeting of party experts , at which the report 1 https : //ww
ith a view to providing a summary of progress in the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans ; ( e ) request the least developed countries expert group , in collaboration with the adaptation committee and with the support of the secretariat , to prepare a report on the meeting 
ccordance with decision 1/cp.16 ; 2. welcomes the recent pledges made to the adaptation fund ( totalling usd 356 million ) and to the least developed countries fund ( totalling usd 605.3 million ) ; 3. notes the continued efforts of developed country parties towards reaching the goal of mobilizing 
ds used for estimating adaptation finance ; differences in the assumptions used in underlying formulas for attributing finance from mdbs to developed countries ; the classification of sustainable or green finance ; and the inc omplete data on non -concessional finance flows . 8. data gaps : signifi
ided to non-annex i parties from mdbs ’ own resources . ( 3 ) estimates include private finance mobilized through public interventions from developed countries . 28. mdbs provided usd 34 billion and usd 42 billion in climate finance from their own resources to developing and emerging economies in 2
cc/cp/2021/12/add.1 24 average ( usd 36.6 billion ) represents a 50 per cent increase since 2015 –2016 . the at tribution of these flows to developed countries is calculated at between usd 23.3 billion to usd 24.1 billion in 2017 and usd 25.8 billion to 28.0 billion in 2018 . 29. the uncertainty of
stinations of private finance f lows to developing countries remains significant . oecd estimates that private climate finance mobilized by developed countries through bilateral and multilateral channels amounted to usd 14.5 billion in 2017 and usd 14.6 billion in 2018 . 30. information on the reci
ology fund , forest carbon partnership facility , forest investment program , global climate change alliance , gcf , gef trust fund , least developed countries fund , partnership for market readiness , pilot programme for climate resilience , scaling up renewable energy progr am , special climate c
ent have tended to decrease over time . the alignment of administrative functions between funds ( e.g . the gef administration of the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund ) can streamline management and disbursement mechanisms . this is essential in order to retain the
r the convention , namely the gef , including the special climate funds managed by the gef ( the special climate c hange fund and the least developed countries fund ) , the green climate fund and the adaptation fund , also play a critical role in providing financial support for countries in facilit
rk and the technology executive committee ; ( g ) the collaboration between the green climate fund , the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group ; 4. welcomes the long- term vision on complementarity , coherence and collaboration between the green climate fund and the gl
he climate change projects and programmes approved during the reporting period under the global environment facility trust fund , the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund ; ( b ) integration of climate change priorities into its other focal areas and the reduction in g
rving simultaneously as executing agencies ; 8. welcomes with appreciation the contributions made by developed country parties to the least developed countries fund , amounting to usd 605.3 million , and encourages additional voluntary financial contr ibutions to the least developed countries fund 
least developed countries fund , amounting to usd 605.3 million , and encourages additional voluntary financial contr ibutions to the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund to support adaptation and technology transfer ; 9. requests the global environment facility , as a
ised terms of reference of the consultative group of experts ............................. 5 15/cp.26 extension of the mandate of the least developed countries expert group .............. 8 16/cp.26 local communities and indigenous peoples platform ................................ .............. 11
p of experts , in addition to current members from parties not included in annex i to the convention , one additional member from the least developed countries and one additional member from small island developing states , noting that this does not set a precedent for the consideration of the comp
ts , with a view to improving the technical analysis , taking into account the experience of non -annex i parties , in particular the least developed countries and small island developing states , in preparing their biennial update reports , and increasing the representation of the least developed 
up of experts , in providing technical advice and support , should , to the extent possible : ( a ) give special consideration to the least developed countries and small island developing states , includin g in the context of the need to improve the ability of experts to participate in technical ex
ary meeting 13 novemb er 2021 3 decision 18/cma.1 , annex . fccc/cp/2021/12/add.2 8 decision 15/cp.26 extension of the mandate of the least developed countries expert group the conference of the parties , recalling decisions 5/cp.7 , 29/cp.7 , 7/cp.9 , 4/cp.10 , 4/cp.11 , 8/cp.13 , 6/cp.16 , 5/cp.1
ion and the preamble to the paris agreement o n parties to it taking full account of the specific needs and special situations of the least developed countries in their actions with regard to funding and transfer of technology , noting the importance of adaptation for the least developed countries 
 developed countries in their actions with regard to funding and transfer of technology , noting the importance of adaptation for the least developed countries and the role of national adaptation plans in addressing national , subnational , sectoral and local , as well as regional and transboundary
cal , as well as regional and transboundary issues , having considered the reports on the 37th , 38th , 39th and 40th meetings of the least developed countries expert group , the report on the stocktaking meeting on the work of the group , the views of parties on the work of the group , and the syn
ned therein,1 having also considered the views shared by parties during official events on this matter,2 recognizing the value of the least developed countries expert group in providing support for addressing the priority needs of the least developed countries , expressing its special appreciation 
r,2 recognizing the value of the least developed countries expert group in providing support for addressing the priority needs of the least developed countries , expressing its special appreciation to the least developed countries expert group on its twentieth anniversary , expressing its appreciat
 in providing support for addressing the priority needs of the least developed countries , expressing its special appreciation to the least developed countries expert group on its twentieth anniversary , expressing its appreciation to the least developed countries expert group for it s successful w
 special appreciation to the least developed countries expert group on its twentieth anniversary , expressing its appreciation to the least developed countries expert group for it s successful work in implementing its work programme for 2015 –2021 and in supporting the preparation and implementatio
r 2015 –2021 and in supporting the preparation and implementation of national adaptation programmes of action , other elements of the least developed countries work programme , and the process to formulat e and implement national adaptation plans , recognizing the experience of the least developed 
 countries work programme , and the process to formulat e and implement national adaptation plans , recognizing the experience of the least developed countries expert group in successfully supporting the formulation and implementation of national adaptation programmes of action in the least develop
untries expert group in successfully supporting the formulation and implementation of national adaptation programmes of action in the least developed countries , also recognizing the value of information provided by the least developed countries expert group , in collaboration with other constitute
national adaptation programmes of action in the least developed countries , also recognizing the value of information provided by the least developed countries expert group , in collaboration with other constituted bodies under the convention and the paris agreement , to the least developed countri
veloped countries expert group , in collaboration with other constituted bodies under the convention and the paris agreement , to the least developed countries , and of the engagement of a wide range of organizations , including through the open nap initiative and the national adaptation plan techn
rganizations , including through the open nap initiative and the national adaptation plan technical working group , in supporting the least developed countries , noting the importance of the least developed countries expert group as a body that provides high -quality information on adaptation for t
and the national adaptation plan technical working group , in supporting the least developed countries , noting the importance of the least developed countries expert group as a body that provides high -quality information on adaptation for the least developed countries , 1 fccc/sbi/2020/6 , fccc/s
 the importance of the least developed countries expert group as a body that provides high -quality information on adaptation for the least developed countries , 1 fccc/sbi/2020/6 , fccc/sbi/2020/7 , fccc/sbi/2020/8 , fccc/sbi/2020/14 , fccc/sbi/2021/6 and fccc/sbi/2021/13 . 2 the event on e nhanci
cc/sbi/2020/7 , fccc/sbi/2020/8 , fccc/sbi/2020/14 , fccc/sbi/2021/6 and fccc/sbi/2021/13 . 2 the event on e nhancing su pport to the least developed countries : insights from a recent stocktaking meeting of the work of the least developed countries expert group ( for information , see https : //un
. 2 the event on e nhancing su pport to the least developed countries : insights from a recent stocktaking meeting of the work of the least developed countries expert group ( for information , see https : //unfccc.int/node/227958 ) ; the technical dialogue with parties and observers held by the cha
rvers held by the chair of the subsidiary body for implementation on experience , good practices and lessons learned from work of the least developed countries expert group to inform the review of the group ( for information , see https : //unfccc.int/node/257183 ) ; and the information event on th
oup ( for information , see https : //unfccc.int/node/257183 ) ; and the information event on the work of the group in supporting the least developed countries on adaptation ( for information , see https : //unfccc.int/event/info_event_leg_sb2021 ) . fccc/cp/2021/12/add.2 9 recognizing that the lea
 adaptation ( for information , see https : //unfccc.int/event/info_event_leg_sb2021 ) . fccc/cp/2021/12/add.2 9 recognizing that the least developed countries continue to require support for , inter alia , undertaking the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans , applyi ng reg
t national adaptation plans , applyi ng regional approaches to adaptation , engaging with the green climate fund and implementing the least developed countries work programme , noting the need to continue to support the least developed countries in achieving their vision of having produced thei r f
ith the green climate fund and implementing the least developed countries work programme , noting the need to continue to support the least developed countries in achieving their vision of having produced thei r first national adaptation plan by the end of 2020 or soon thereafter , 1. decides to ex
having produced thei r first national adaptation plan by the end of 2020 or soon thereafter , 1. decides to extend the mandate of the least developed countries expert group ( hereinafter referred to as the group ) under its current terms of reference ; 3 2. also decides that the next re view of the
on ( 2026 ) , the midway point before t he review referred to in paragraph 2 above , as a way to reflect on the evolving needs of the least developed countries ; 4. invites the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement to review the progress of the group
 implementation of the group ’ s work programme ; 8. requests the group to continue to provide tech nical guidance and support to the least developed countries for advancing the formulation and implementation of national adaptation plans , including in relation to the work on improving their access
nce for adaptation , including sources other than the unfccc financial mechanism ; 11. requests the gr oup to continue to support the least developed countries in understanding the modalities for and ways of accessing relevant sources of financing , capacity -building and technology transfer for ad
cordance with the group ’ s mandate ; 12. also requests the group , in collaboration with relevant constituted bodies , to assist the least developed countries in addressing adaptation -related provisions of the convention and the paris agreement , including the submission and updating of adaptatio
ing committee on finance on matters relating to access to the green climate fund and other funds under the financial mechanism by the least developed countries for funding the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans ; 14. requests the group to continue to collaborate with the a
s on work under the nairobi wo rk programme on impacts , vulnerability and adaptation to climate change , in providing support to the least developed countries for the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans and to include information thereon in its reports to the sub sidiary b
sub sidiary body for implementation ; 15. encourages the group to prioritize elements of its mandate on the basis of the needs of the least developed countries and the availability of resources ; 16. recognizes the positive engagement of a broad range of organizations , networks and experts in supp
 adaptation plan technical working group ; 17. requests the group to mobilize more partners to address specific priority needs of the least developed countries , as appropriate ; 18. decides to adjust the composition of the group to be as follows : ( a ) five members from african states that are le
s appropriate ; 18. decides to adjust the composition of the group to be as follows : ( a ) five members from african states that are least developed countries ; ( b ) two members from asia -pacific states that are least developed countrie s ; ( c ) two members from small island developing states t
embers from asia -pacific states that are least developed countrie s ; ( c ) two members from small island developing states that are least developed countries ; ( d ) four members from the least developed country parties ; ( e ) four members from developed country parties ; 19. requests the group 
omposed of 14 members , of which : ( a ) two members from each of the five united nations regional groups ; ( b ) one member from the least developed countries ; ( c ) one member from the small island developing states ; ( d ) two members from relevant intergovernmental organizations.1 5. by the sa
experts on the impacts of the implementation of response measures ; lcipp = local communities and indigenous peoples platform ; leg = least developed countries expert group ; lt-leds = long-term low-emission development strategy ; mrv = measur ement , reporting and verification ; nap = national ada
