 a ) increase the visibility and profile of adaptation and its balance with mitigation ; ( b ) strengthen adaptation action and support for developing countries ; ( c ) provide input to the global stocktake ; ( d ) enhance learning and understanding of adaptation needs and actions ; 2. decides that 
ies ; ( e ) implementation of adaptation actions and plans , including : ( i ) progress and results achieved ; ( ii ) adaptation efforts of developing countries for recognition ; ( iii ) cooperation on enhancing adaptation at the national , regional and international level , as appropriate ; ( iv ) 
owledges that adaptation efforts contribute to this objective ; iii . methodologies for assessing adaptation needs with a view to assisting developing countries without placing undue burden on them 15. requests the adaptation committee , in collaboration with the least develo ped countries expert gr
building adapt ive capacity ; iv . methodologies for taking the necessary steps to facilitate the mobilization of support for adaptation in developing countries 21. invites the standing committee on finan ce , in line with its mandate and in collaboration with the technology executive committee and 
 as well as relevant submissions from parties and observer organizations , ways to facilitate the mobilization of support for adaptation in developing countries , in the context of the limit to the increase in the global average temperature referred to in article 2 of the paris agreement , and to in
is should include : ( a ) enhanced information to increase clarity on the projected levels of public financial resources to be pr ovided to developing countries , as available ; ( b ) indicative quantitative and qualitative information on programmes , including projected levels , channels and instru
building ; ( e ) information on the factors that providers of climate finance look for in evaluating proposals , in order to help to inform developing countries ; ( f ) an indication of new and additional resources to be provided , and how it determines such resources as being new and additional ; (
g country parties and supports country -driven strategies ; ( m ) information on how support provided and mobilized is targeted at help ing developing countries in their efforts to meet the long -term goals of the paris agreement , including by assisting them in efforts to make finance flows consist
year in the context of meaningful mitigation actions and transparency of implementation and taking into account the needs and priorities of developing countries ; 2. agrees to consider , in its deliberations referred to in paragraph 1 abo ve , the aim to strengthen the global response to the threat 
and avoids duplication of work ; ( j ) enhancing the capacity of national designated entities ( ndes ) of all parties , especially those in developing countries , to fulfil th eir roles ; ( k ) enhancing the capacities of parties to plan , monitor and achieve technological transformation in accordan
gy development and transfer , including in relation to : ( i ) the implementation of its three core services : responding t o requests from developing countries ; fostering collaboration and sharing of information ; and strengthening networks , partnerships and capacity -building ; ( ii ) its instit
 scale and types of cooperation and good practices ; ( vi ) improving dura bility and effectiveness of adaptation actions ; ( vii ) helping developing countries to identify effective adaptation practices , needs , priorities , and challenges and gaps in a way that is consistent with encouraging good
country parties to mobilize support for capacity -building so that the least developed countries , small island developing states and other developing countries can effectively participate in the global stocktake and take up relevant global stocktake information ; 13. decides that the outputs of the
 adverse effects of climate change ; ( f ) barriers and challenges , including finance , technology4 and capacity -building gaps , faced by developing countries ; ( g ) good practices , experience and potential opportunities to enhance international cooperation on mitigation and adaptation and to in
 agreement related to finance , technology transfer and capacity -building to address the mitigation and adaptation needs and priorities of developing countries ; 16. urges developed country pa rties to provide financial resources to assist developing country parties with respect to both mitigation 
 established to address loss and damage associated with the impacts of climate change , including extreme events and slow onset events , in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change , also recalling decisions 3/cp.18 , 2/cp.19 , 2/cp.20 , 1/cp.21 
 change , also recognizing the importance of the warsaw international mechanism for averting , minimizing and addressing loss and damage in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change , recalling that the conference of the parties at its twenty -sec
ability , increasing resilience and coordinated action , and monitoring progress ; 15. recognizes the importance of particularly vulnerable developing countries and segments of the population that are already vulnerable owing to geography , socioeconomic status , livelihood , gender , age , indigeno
o recognizes the urgency of enhancing the mobilization of action and support , including finance , technolog y and capacity -building , for developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change for averting , minimizing and addressing loss and damage associat
ate change ; 32. urges the scaling -up of action and support , as appropriate , including finance , technology and capacity -building , for developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change for averting , minimizing and addressing loss and damage associat
funds and other stakeholders to scale up action and support , as appropriate , including finance , technology and capacity - building , for developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change for averting , minimizing and addressing loss and damage associat
 under and outside the convention and the paris agreement to scale up support , including finance , technology and capacity -building , for developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adv erse effects of climate change for averting , minimizing and addressing loss and damage associa
priate ; 42. recognizes the importance of building the capacity , and enhancing the facilitation , of the provision of technical support to developing countries for approaches to averting , minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change ; 43. establis
t organizations , bodies , networks and experts for the implementation of relevant approaches at the local , national and regional level in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change ; 44. invites the organizations , bodies , networks and experts r
. invites the organizations , bodies , networks and experts referred to in paragraph 43 above engaged in providing tec hnical assistance to developing countries to report on their progress to the executive committee ; 45. requests the executive committee to include relevant information from the orga
 under the convention and the paris agreement to address gaps and needs , both current and emerging , in implementing capacity -building in developing countries and to enhance the coherence and coordination of capacity -building in accordance with the relevant mandates and activities of those bodies
action ; 2. acknowledges that the impacts of climate change exacerbate the global energy and food crises , and vice versa , particularly in developing countries ; 3. stresses that the increasingly complex and challenging global geopolitical situation and its impact on the energy , food and economic 
es of the fund ; 41. highlights the role of the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund in supporting actions by developing countries to address climate change , welcomes the pledges made to the two funds and invites developed countries to further contribute to the two fun
f.2 . fccc/pa/cma/2022/ 10/add.1 7 45. expresses deep concern regarding the significant financial costs associated with loss and damage for developing countries , resulting in a growing debt burden and impairing the realization of the sustainable development goals ; 46. welcomes the consideration , 
ed role in catalysing technical assistance for the implementation of the relevant approaches at the local , national and regiona l level in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change , and affirms its determination to select the host of the secreta
arning and systematic observation 48. emphasizes the need to address existing gaps in the global climate observing system , particularly in developing countries , and recognizes that one third of the world , including 60 per cent of africa , does not have access to early warning and climate informat
tation has not yet been met and urges developed country parties to meet the goal ; 15 58. emphasizes that accelerated financial support for developing countries from developed countries and other sources i s critical to enhancing mitigation action and addressing inequities in access to finance , inc
tee on finance . 2022. report on progress towards achieving the goal of mobilizing jointly usd 100 billion per year to address the needs of developing countries in the context of meaningful mitigation actions and transparency on implementation . bonn : unfccc . available at https : //unfccc.int/proc
ovation in implementing the joint work programme activities ; xi . capacity -building 71. notes that capacity gaps and needs still exist in developing countries and calls on developed country parties to increase support for long -term country -driven capacity -building interventions to enhance the e
mission thereof ; 73. recognizes the importance of th e provision of increased support , in a timely , adequate and predictable manner , to developing countries for implementing the enhanced transparency framework under the paris agreement ; xiii . taking stock 74. welcomes the progress of the first
ation and fore st degradation , and the role of conservation , sustainable management of forests and enhancement of forest carbon stocks in developing countries ; and alternative policy approaches , such as joint mitigation and adaptation approaches for the integral and sust ainable management of fo
mme on gender and its gender action plan , to raise clima te ambition and achieve climate goals ; 86. invites parties to provide support to developing countries for undertaking gender - related action and implementing the gender action plan ; 87. recognizes the role of children and youth as agents o
s and damage ” , 1. acknowledge the urgent and immediate need for new , additional , predictable and adequate financial resources to assist developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change in responding to economic and non -economic loss and damage assoc
 ex post ( including rehabilitation , recovery and reconstruction ) action ; 2. decide to establish new fun ding arrangements for assisting developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change , in responding to loss and damage , including with a focus on ad
om the deliberations on all elements and setting the new collective quantified goal in 2024 taking into account the needs and priorities of developing countries ; 1 decision 9/cma.3 , para . 22 . 2 fccc/pa/cma/2022/5 and add.1 . 3 available at https : //www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/pages
lective quantified goal on climate finance , which will be in line with decision 14/cma.1 and take into account the needs and priorities of developing countries and include , inter alia , quantity , quality , scope and access features , as well as sources of funding , of the goal and transparency ar
2020 in the context of meaningful mitigation actions and transparency on implementation and taking into account the needs and priorities of developing countries ; 11. requests the co -chairs of the ad hoc work programme on the new collective quantifie d goal on climate finance , with a view to signi
h 1 ( d ) above , to the extent possible , giving special consideration , including in terms of support for participation , to experts from developing countries , particularl y the least developed countries and small island developing states ; 13. also requests the secretariat to include any cases o
nimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change at the local , national and regional level in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change ; 2 2. expresses its appreciation to the government of denmark fo
on of relevant approaches to averting , minimizing and addressing loss and damage asso ciated with the adverse effects of climate change in developing countries in support of the functions set out in paragraph 9 of decision 19/cma.3 ; 5. also recalls decision 1/cma.3 , paragraph 70 , which urges dev
 the sixty -first sessions of the subsidiary bodies ( november 2024 ) ; 15. also requests the secretariat to continue providing support for developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change that may seek or wish to benefit from the technical assistance av
t organizations , bodies , networks and experts for the implementation of relevant approaches at the local , national and regional level in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change.1 ii . functions 2. cma 3 decided that the santiago network is to
 , bodies , networks and experts , for the implementation of relevant approaches to averting , minimizing and addressing loss and damage in developing countries that ar e particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change by assisting in : ( i ) identifying , prioritizing and communica
, bodies , networks and experts , across communities of practices , and for them to deliver effective and efficient technical assistance to developing countries ; ( e ) facilitating the de velopment , provision and dissemination of , and access to , knowledge and information on averting , minimizing
n understanding the dynamics of various countries ; ( d ) have a track record of facilitating technical assistance and building capacity in developing countries and communities that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change ; ( e ) have demonstrated experience in managing 
ent and management capability ; ( c ) have demonstrated an ability to simultaneously administer and manage multiple and complex projects in developing countries ; ( d ) be able to manage and maintain information systems to enable sharing of best practices and lessons learned ; ( e ) be able to guara
ange impacts to address loss and damage associated with the impacts of climate change , including extreme events and slow onset events , in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change , also recalling relevant decisions of the conference of the part
ntion and the goals set by the paris agreement to combat climate change and adapt ing to its impacts while taking into account the needs of developing countries ; 4. requests the board to increase its support to developing countries in order to guide and enable green climate fund programming to prom
and adapt ing to its impacts while taking into account the needs of developing countries ; 4. requests the board to increase its support to developing countries in order to guide and enable green climate fund programming to promote a paradigm shift across both high - impact areas of mitigation poten
gement of forests , in accordance with decision 16/cp.21 ; 7. requests the board to consider how to enhance support for just transitions of developing countries across economic sectors and transition to resilient economies , and how to provide better access to climate finance and enablers of just tr
in order to implement the enhanced transparency framework ; 7. notes the increased support provided by the global environment faci lity for developing countries to prepare biennial transparency reports and for the capacity -building initiative for transparency , in particular in the context of imple
: //unfccc.int/ttclear/tec . 3 available at https : //unfccc.int/ttclear/tec/documents.html . fccc/pa/cma/2022/ 10/add.3 26 the capacity of developing countries to prepare project proposals and facilitating their access to available funding for techn ology development and transfer ; 10. requests the
 network , including by mobilizing private sector entities and network members , with a view to building and strengthening the ca pacity of developing countries , to assess their technology needs , develop and implement technology action plans , scale up technical assistance and access available fun
rk to continue matchmaking for the purpose of securing funding for the implementation of projects after technical assistance is provided to developing countries ; 6. further encourages the technology executive committee an d the climate technology centre and network to continue their efforts to enha
e mobilization so as to meet the costs associated with their activities for implementing their respective mandates and providing support to developing countries in impl ementing mitigation and adaptation action ; 3 7. invites parties , the technology executive committee and the climate technology ce
 gaps and needs related to formulating and implementing national adaptation plans ; 7 11. notes that capacity gaps and needs still exist in developing countries pertaining to the implementat ion of the paris agreement ; 12. invites parties and relevant institutions , as appropriate , to provide supp
f environmental - economic accounting ) ; ( c ) establish capacity -building partnerships and networks for increasing the representation of developing countries in the use and development of impact assessment tools and methods for assessing the impacts of the implementation of response measures ; ( 
stent with a pathway towards low greenhouse gas emission and climate -resilient development taking into account the needs and priorities of developing countries and building on the work of the standing c ommittee on finance ; 51. emphasizes the challenges faced by many developing country parties in 
lementation of relevant approaches to avert , minimize and address loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change in developing countries in support of the functi ons set out in paragraph 9 of decision 19/cma.3 ; 68. also d ecides that the modalities for the management of fund
y framework in line with article 13 of the pa ris agreement and the timelines set out in decision 18/cma.1 ; 80. acknowledges the call from developing countries for increased support for the implementation of the enhanced transparency framework under article 13 of the paris agreement in a timely , a
tent poss ible , giving special consideration , including in terms of support for participating in the training programme , to experts from developing countries , particularly the least developed countries and small island developing states ; 35. notes that the information r eported pursuant to deci
eement on article 6 of the paris agreement . 6 this only applies to parties that submit a stand -alone national i nventory report . 7 those developing countries that need flexibility in the light of their capacities are encouraged to report these projections . 8 information relevant to this chapter 
propriate systems for monitoring a nd evaluating adaptation action s ; ( g ) strengthen implementation of adaptation action s in vulnerable developing countries ; ( h ) enhance understanding of how communication and reporting instruments established under the convention and the paris agreement relat
onsideration of the new collective quantified goal will be in line with decision 14/cma.1 and take into account the needs and priorities of developing countries and include , inter alia , quantity , quality , scope and access features , as well as sources of funding , of the goal and transparency ar
usiness and research communities and from civil society ; ( d ) information from parties , particularly information related to the needs of developing countries ; 1 https : //www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/pages/home.aspx . fccc/pa/cma/2021/10/add.3 10 ( e ) other technical reports prepare
ntributions to the global environment facility to contribute to a robust eighth replenishment of the global environment facility to support developing countries in implementing the paris agreement and encourages additional voluntary financial contributions to the eighth replenishment of the global e
on of the support provided to developing country parties referred to in decision 5/cma.3 , paragraph 42 , by : ( a ) estimating the cost to developing countries of implementing the enhanced transparency framework , which includes establishing and enhancing a reporting system , as well as the full ag
cility , while taking the necessary measures to ensure , as appropriate , that the set-aside does not impact the allocation of resources to developing countries under the system for transparent allocation of resources ; ( c ) report ing to the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the 
3 20 ( b ) develop ing actions and plans for mobilizing private climate finance ; ( c ) effectively address ing the needs and priorities of developing countries , including striking a balance between support for mitigation and adaptation ; ( d ) integrat ing climate change considerations , including
e resilience , into international development assistance ; ( e ) improv ing enabling environments to strengthen the absorptive capac ity of developing countries ; ( f ) reflect ing on lessons learned for informing future efforts in providing , mobilizing and delivering climate finance ; 8. welcomes 
ment with the private sector and network members ; 21. invites the climate technology centre and network to continue its efforts to support developing countries in preparing and updating technology needs assessments and technology action plans , as well as their implementation , upon request ; 22. a
vites the climate technology centre and network to continue providing support for enhancing the capacity of national designated entities in developing countries to enable them to fulfil their roles . 11th plenary meeting 12 november 2021fccc/pa/cma/2021/10/add.3 25 decision 16/cma.3 alignment betwee
ontributions in the context of national development plans and sustainable recovery ; 5 9. notes that capacity gaps and needs still exist in developing countries pertaining to the implementation of the paris agreement ; 10. invites parties and relevant institutions , as appropriate , to provide suppo
 established to address loss and damage associated with the impacts of climate change , including extreme events and slow onset events , in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change , also recalling decisions 3/cp.18 , 2/cp.19 , 2/cp.20 , 1/cp.21 
 ; 6. invites organizations , bodies , networks and experts to include the following when reporting on the technical assistance provided to developing countries 4 with the aim of enhancing the information captured in the reports of the executive committee : ( a ) the type of technical assistance pro
 enhancing the information captured in the reports of the executive committee : ( a ) the type of technical assistance provided ; ( b ) the developing countries to which technical assistance was provided and when ; ( c ) the involvement of and collaboration among stakeholders at the local , subnatio
works and experts from all regions , wor king at the local , subnational , national , regional and international level , including those in developing countries and those that are represented in the expert groups of the executive committee , to engage in the santiago network for averting , minimizin
c/sb/2017 /1/add.1 . 6 decision 2/cp.19 , para . 5. fccc/pa/cma/2021/10/add.3 30 to averting , minimizing and addressing loss and damage in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of clim ate change by assisting in : ( i ) identifying , prioritizing and communica
, bodies , networks and experts , across communities of practices , and for them to deliver effective and efficient technical assistance to developing countries ; ( e ) facilitating the development , provision and dissemination of , and access to , knowledge and information on averting , minimizing 
ng body at its next session or the governing bodies at their next sessions ; 11. requests the secretariat to continue providing support for developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change that may seek or wish to benefit from the technical assista nce a
nology and capacity- building , for the implementation of relevant approaches 9 to averting , minimizing and addr essing loss and damage in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change , the executive committee , on the basis of its recommendation s 
stances of parties and reflects their national priorities and initiatives while building long- term capacity and expertise in developed and developing countries for implementing ace , including by promoting strong domestic enabling environments . 2. the glasgow work programme builds on work undertak
oard to expand , taking into account paragraph 28 below , the scope and scale of regional collaboration centres ’ assistance acti vities in developing countries by exploring the emerging technical and methodological areas in the context of the clean development mechanism where specific assistance is
bsidiary body for implementation to conduct the third comprehensive review of the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in developing countries , established under decision 2/cp.7 and reaffirmed under decision 29/cmp.1 , at its forty -fourth session ( may 2016 ) , on the basis of th
oard to expand , taking into account paragraph 28 below , the scope and scale of regional collaboration centres ’ assistance acti vities in developing countries by exploring the emerging technical and methodological areas in the context of the clean development mechanism where specific assistance is
bsidiary body for implementation to conduct the third comprehensive review of the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in developing countries , established under decision 2/cp.7 and reaffirmed under decision 29/cmp.1 , at its forty -fourth session ( may 2016 ) , on the basis of th
......... ......................... 14 6/cmp.12 third comprehensive review of the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in developing countries under the kyoto protocol ........................ 15 7/cmp.12 financial and budgetary matters ................................ ............
 the adaptation fund,2 including that : ( a ) the adaptation fund has pioneered several issues related to adaptation finance and is meeting developing countries ’ needs , including those related to direct acc ess ; ( b ) the design of the adaptation fund and its operational processes are efficient a
16fccc/kp/cmp/2016/8/add.1 15 decision 6/cmp.12 third comprehensive review of the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in developing countries under the kyoto protocol the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol , recalling decisions 29
 , 1. recognizes that , while the objective and scope of the needs and priority areas identified in the framework for capacity -building in developing countries established under decision 2/cp.7 and the priority areas for capacity -building relating to the participation of developing countries in pr
ng in developing countries established under decision 2/cp.7 and the priority areas for capacity -building relating to the participation of developing countries in project activities under the clean development mechanism as contained in decision 29/cmp.1 are still relevant , current and emerging are
vant , current and emerging areas should also be taken into consideration in the further implementation of capacity -building activities in developing countries ; 2. invites parties to continue to implement the framework for capacity -building in developing countries under the kyoto protocol by : ( 
capacity -building activities in developing countries ; 2. invites parties to continue to implement the framework for capacity -building in developing countries under the kyoto protocol by : ( a ) enhancing consultations with all stakehol ders throughout the development of projects ; ( b ) enhancing
manage different types of public and private financial resources ; ( c ) strengthening networking and information sharing , including among developing countries , especially through south –south cooperation ; ( d ) strengthening the capacity of designated national authorities through regional collab
mp .1 and 6/cmp.4 ; 6. decides to concl ude the third comprehensive review of the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in developing countries under the kyoto protocol and to initiate the fourth comprehensive review thereof at the fifty -second session of the subsidiary body for im
d the main promoter of di rect access , together with its focus on funding the full costs of concrete adaptation projects and programmes in developing countries , noting with deep concern the continued issues related to the sustainability , adequacy and predictability of funding from the adaptation 
.......................... ....... 11 5/cmp.16 fourth comprehensive review of the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in developing countries under the kyoto protocol ........................ 14 6/cmp.16 fifth review of the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in
plementary activities for the work of the supervisory body to provide , through the regional coll aboration centres , capacity -building in developing countries for apply ing the article 6 , paragraph 4 , mechanism , and support for the transition of clean development mechanism project activities an
e with its existing mandate and decision 1/cmp.3 , to cons ider providing support for country -driven adaptation projects and programmes in developing countries with a view to contributing to enhancing implementation of their national adaptation plans and other voluntary adaptation planning processe
fccc/kp/cmp/2021/ 8/add.1 14 decision 5/cmp.16 fourth comprehensive review of the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in developing countries under the kyoto protocol the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol , recalling decisions 29
, 2/cp.17 and 10/cp.25 , 1. notes with appreciation the continued progress in the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in developing countries established under decisio n 2/cp.7 ( hereinafter referred to as the capacity -building framework ) , demonstrated by the increase in capaci
 -building framework under the kyoto protocol ( 2017 – 2021 ) ; 2. recognizes that , while the objective and scope of capacity -building in developing countries as set out in decision 2/cp.7 and the pri ority areas as contained in decision 29/cmp.1 are still relevant , current and emerging areas in 
es and lessons learned among parties and capacity -building practitioners ; 9. emphasizes the importance of building long -term capacity in developing countries , including by promoting strong domestic enabling environments ; 10. notes that monitoring and reviewing the impacts of capacity -building 
f capacity -building activities , including through the durban forum ; 12. invites parties to cooperate in order to enhance the capacity of developing countries to implement the kyoto protocol and also invites parties , as appropriate , and other stakeholders to continue to provide support for capac
rotocol and also invites parties , as appropriate , and other stakeholders to continue to provide support for capacity -building actions in developing countries ; fccc/kp/cmp/2021/ 8/add.1 15 13. concludes the f ourth comprehensive review of the implementation of the capacity - building framework un
n as well as the commencement of the second year of implementation of the adaptation fund climate innovation accelerator ; ( o ) access for developing countries to the adaptation fund climate innovation accelerator through the u nited nations development programme , in addition to through the united
 to consider , in line with its mandate and decision 1/cmp.3 , providing su pport for country -driven adaptation projects and programmes in developing countries with a view to assisting them in enhancing implementation of their national adaptation plans and other voluntary adaptation planning proces
 direct access to adaptation finance , together with it s focus on funding the full costs of concrete adaptation projects and programmes in developing countries , noting with concern the continued issues related to the sustainability , adequacy and predictability of funding from the adaptation fund 
uding in the context of urging developed country parties to at least double their collective provision of climate finance for adaptation to developing countries from 2019 levels by 2025 , in the context of achieving a b alance between mitigation and adaptation in the provision of scaled -up financia
f environmental - economic accounting ) ; ( c ) establish capacity -building partnerships and networks for increasing the representation of developing countries in the use and development of impact assessment tools and methods for assessing the impacts of the implementation of response measures ; ( 
r e mitigation and adaptation efforts , fccc/cp/2015/10/add.1 3 acknowledging the need to promote universal access to sustainable energy in developing countries , in particular in africa , through the enhanced deployment of renewable energy , agreeing to uphold and promote regional and international
en regional cooperation on adaptation where appropriate and , where necessary , establish regional centres and netw orks , in particular in developing countries , taking into account decision 1/cp.16 , paragraph 30 ; 45. also requests the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert
ts first session on : fccc/cp/2015/10/add.1 8 ( a ) taking the necessary steps to facilit ate the mobilization of support for adaptation in developing countries in the context of the limit to global average temperature increase referred to in article 2 of the agreement ; ( b ) reviewing the adequacy
ment shall set a n ew collective quantified goal from a floor of usd 100 billion per year , taking into account the needs and priorities of developing countries ; 54. recognizes the importance of adequate and predictable financial resources , including for results -based payments , a s appropriate ,
tation and forest degradation , and the role of conservation , sustainable management of forests and enhancement of forest carbon stocks in developing countries ; and alternative policy approaches , such as joint mitigation and adaptation approaches for the integral and sustainable management of for
p.18 , 1. adopts the terms of reference for the third comprehensive review of the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in developing countries established under decision 2/cp.7 ( hereinafter referred to as the c apacity -building framework ) as contained in the annex ; 2. requests 
015/10/add.3 4 annex terms of reference for the third comprehensive review of the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in developing countries [ english only ] i. mandate 1. the conference of the parties ( cop ) decided to initiate the third comprehensive review of the implementati
 of the parties ( cop ) decided to initiate the third comprehensive review of the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in developing countries established under decision 2/c p.7 ( hereinafter referred to as the capacity -building framework ) at the forty -second session of the subs
; ( b ) identification of needs and gaps and an assessment of fact ors that influence the effectiveness of capacity -building activities in developing countries ; ( c ) key results and impacts ; ( d ) information on the extent and variety of stakeholders within developing countries ( governmental an
ing activities in developing countries ; ( c ) key results and impacts ; ( d ) information on the extent and variety of stakeholders within developing countries ( governmental and non -governmental organizations , the p rivate sector , community organizations , etc . ) involved in , and benefiting f
eration of the ghg data interface on the unfccc website 660 711 21 supporting the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in developing countries established under decision 2/cp.7 and the framework for capacity -building in countries with economies in transition established under deci
ee on capacity -building in the context of the third comprehensive review of the implementation of the framewo rk for capacity -building in developing countries , with a view to recommending a draft decision on this matter for consideration and adoption by the conference of the parties at its twenty
f efforts to avert , minimize and address loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of cli mate change in particularly vulnerable developing countries , vulnerable populations and the ecosystems that they depend on ; 9. encourages parties to incorporate or continue to incorporate the consi
tional mechanism to address loss and damage associated with impacts of climate change , including extreme events and slow onset events , in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change , as well as its role of promoting the implementation of approach
 , and the consideration of projects , tools and methodologies related to enhancing economic or livelihood diversification , especially for developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse ef fects of climate change ; 14. notes with concern the shortfall in resources available to
 the successful conduct of the nap expo that took place from 11 to 15 july 2016 in bonn , germany , and the active participation therein of developing countries and other relevant stakeholders ; 4. notes with appreciation the decision of the board of the green climate fund at its 13th meeting that a
sion workshop referred to in paragraph 6 above , including that : ( a ) country -driven processes for the assessment of adaptation needs in developing countries are fundamental for scaling up adaptation finance ; ( b ) the nationally determined contributions and adaptation communications could const
mited financial reso urces achieve the greatest possible impact ; 8. also notes the progress made to date in enhancing access to finance by developing countries , while further emphasizing the continued challenges that developing countries face in this regard , in particular those w ith capacity con
 the progress made to date in enhancing access to finance by developing countries , while further emphasizing the continued challenges that developing countries face in this regard , in particular those w ith capacity constraints , and further encourages parties and relevant institutions to continue
s outlines improvements made and identifies areas for further improvements in the unfccc reporting guidelines and formats for developed and developing countries and for improvements in climate finance track ing and reporting of data producers and aggregators . the biennial assessment and overview of
ata producers and aggregators . the biennial assessment and overview of climate finance flows presents estimates of flows from developed to developing countries , available information on domestic climate finance and south –south coopera tion , as well as the other climate -related flows that consti
logy for tracking public and private climate co -finance by a consortium of seven mdbs . insights into reporting by developed countries and developing countries 9. the current biennial report ( br ) guidelines5 were designed to accommodate reporting on a wide range of climate finance instruments and
 and to enable greater comparability across reporting by parties . 10. current biennial update report ( bur ) guidelines6 for report ing by developing countries on financial , technical and capacity -building needs and support received do not require information on the underlying assumptions , defin
2/cp.17 . 6 decision 2/cp.17 . fccc/cp/2016/ 10/add.1 24 2. overview of current climate finance flows in 2013 –2014 flows from developed to developing countries as reported in biennial reports 15. usd 25.4 billion in 2013 and usd 26.6 billion in 2014 of climate -specific finance was reported in brs 
mation on their activities is mostly complete . climate finance from multilateral development banks 17. climate finance provided by mdbs to developing countries from their own resources was reported as usd 20 . 8 billion in 2013 and usd 25.7 billion in 2014. the methodology used in the 2014 biennial
methodology used in the 2014 biennial assessment and overview of climate finance flows to attribute mdb finance from developed countries to developing countries suggests that usd 11.4 billion in 2013 and usd 12.7 billion in 2014 was delivered by developed countries . a more advanced methodology , wh
 billion in 2014 can be attributed to developed c ountries . private climate finance 18. the major source of uncertainty regarding flows to developing countries relates to the amount of private climate finance provided . initial partial estimates of direct and mobilized private finance are available
ect and mobilized private finance are available . based on project -level data , renewable energy finance by developed country companies in developing countries is estimated at usd 1.8 billion in 2013 and usd 2.1 billion in 2014. foreign direct investment in greenfield alternative and renewable ener
timated at usd 1.8 billion in 2013 and usd 2.1 billion in 2014. foreign direct investment in greenfield alternative and renewable energy in developing countries was estimated at usd 26.4 billion in 2013 and usd 21.6 billion in 2014. both estimates are likely to be conservative . oecd and the climate
nance . these figures include private finance mobilized from international sources in addition to private finance mobilized domestically in developing countries . the se partial estimates of direct private finance and mobilized finance are distinct , and can not simply be aggregated . instruments 19
w of climate finance flows , but nevertheless the quality and completeness of data on global total flows are lower than those for flo ws to developing countries . 22. the estimate of global total climate finance in the 2016 biennial assessment and overview of climate finance flows includes adjustmen
tments by developing country national climate funds . these indicative estimates suggest flows of usd 192 billion per year in developed and developing countries . 24. some studies suggest that mos t climate finance in aggregate is mobilized and deployed domestically , both in developed and developin
countries . 24. some studies suggest that mos t climate finance in aggregate is mobilized and deployed domestically , both in developed and developing countries . in the limited number of developing countries for which information on domestic public climate finance is available , the data suggest th
climate finance in aggregate is mobilized and deployed domestically , both in developed and developing countries . in the limited number of developing countries for which information on domestic public climate finance is available , the data suggest that , i n these countries , domestic public finan
 flows in 2013 –2014 ( usd billion and annualized ) note : figure is not to scale , but seeks to show the relative size of flows . flows to developing countries are a subset of global total flows . fccc/cp/2016/10 /add.1 27 abbreviations : bnef = bloomberg new energy finance , br = biennial report ,
nex i parties . d from annex ii parties as well as czechia , poland , slovakia and slovenia . figure 2 characteristics of public finance in developing countries for 2013 –2014 c not primarily development or concessional . one per cent of the equity reported is concessional equity . 3. assessment of 
 data due to data availability . fccc/cp/2016/ 10/add.1 28 finance is delivered . key features of different channels of climate finance for developing countries are summarize d in figure 2 . 27. mitigation -focused finance represented more than 70 per cent of the public finance in developing countri
veloping countries are summarize d in figure 2 . 27. mitigation -focused finance represented more than 70 per cent of the public finance in developing countries reported in 2013 and 2014. adaptation finance provided to developing countries accounted for about 25 per cent of the total finance . this 
e represented more than 70 per cent of the public finance in developing countries reported in 2013 and 2014. adaptation finance provided to developing countries accounted for about 25 per cent of the total finance . this is similar to 2011 –2012 , although there has been a slight increase in the pro
ing work by the oecd research collaborative on tracking private climate f inance and by mdbs ; ownership , needs and impact ( e ) encourage developing countries to take advantage of the resources available through the operating entities of the financial mechanism to strengthen their institutional ca
nal direct access entities , entities in the asia -pacific and eastern european regions , private sector ent ities , in particular those in developing countries , and entities responding to requests for proposals issued by the green climate fund ; ( c ) the adoption of the initial strategic plan for
y , as an operating entity of the financ ial mechanism of the convention , in its seventh replenishment programming , to continue to assist developing countries , in particular the least developed countries and small island developing states , in accessing resources in an efficient manner ; 4. also 
riate and as needed , to minimize the potential consequences of the projected shortfall referred to in paragraph 5 above for its support to developing countries , aiming to fulfil the relevant programming directions of the sixth replenishment of the global environment facility ; 1 fccc/cp/2016/6 , a
esources to developing country parties under article 4 , paragraph 3 , of the convention ; ( v ) the effectiveness of access modalities for developing countries ; ( b ) to examine consistency a nd complementarity between the operating entities of the financial mechanism , and between the operating e
f the objective of the convention , in particular innovative means of financing , such as for the development of endogenous technologies in developing countries ; ( ii ) examining the role of the financial mechanism in scaling up the level of resources ; ( iii ) assessing enabling environments for c
...... ............................. 5 16/cp.22 third comprehensive review of the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in developing countries under the convention .............................. 7 17/cp.22 improving the effectiveness of the doha work programme on article 6 of the c
6 . fccc/cp/2016/ 10/add.2 7 decision 1 6/cp.22 third comprehensive review of the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in developing countries under the convention the conference of the parties , recalling decisions 2/cp.7 , 1/cp.21 , and 14/cp.21 , reaffirming that capacity -build
ipatory as well as iterative approaches to capacity -building , 1. recognizes that , while the objective and scope of capacity -building in developing countries as contained in decision 2/cp.7 are still relevant , current and emerging areas in the context of the convention and the paris agreement sh
nvention and the paris agreement should also be taken into account in the further implementation of the framework for capacity -building in developing countries ; 2. recalls that the paris committee on capacity -building aims to address both current and emerging gaps and needs in implementing capaci
to take into consideration the outcomes of the third comprehensive review of the implemen tation of the framework for capacity -building in developing countries ; ( c ) to take into consideration previous work undertaken on indicators for capacity -building ; ( d ) to promote and explore linkages wi
tions agencies , multilateral organizations and relevant admitted observer organizations engaged in providing capacity -building support to developing countries to provide information to the secretariat to be uploaded on the capacity -building portal ; 2 10. also invites parties to submit , by 9 mar
p/2016/ 10/add.2 9 12. decide s to conclude the third comprehensive review of the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in developing countries under the convention and to initiate the fourth comprehensive review thereof at the fiftieth session of the subsidiary body fo r implementa
te variables is contained in table 1 of the implementation plan . fccc/cp/2016/10/add.2 15 9. also emphasizes the need to build capacity in developing countries through existing relevant mechanisms , including the global climate observing system cooperation mechanism . 9th plenary meeting 17 novembe
in annex i to the convention to enhancing capacity -building and participation in measurement , reporting and verification arrangements for developing countries under the convention , noting the progress made by the consultative group of experts as reflected in its 2016 progress report , also n otin
; 7. notes that the dialogue highlighted progress in and remaining barriers to translating climate fina nce needs into action and enhancing developing countries ’ access to climate finance ; 8. welcomes with appreciation the pledges and announcements of parties , including pledges to the green clima
ion and ambition 13. notes with concern the current , urgent and emerging needs relat ed to extreme weather events and slow onset events in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change ; 14. stresses the urgency of enhanced ambition in order to ensur
ation actions and transparency on implementation , to a goal of mobilizing jointly usd 100 billion per year by 2020 to address the needs of developing countries , in accordance with decision 1/cp . 16 ; post-2020 21. reiterates its invitation6 to parties to communicate , by 2020 , mid -century , lon
, special climate change fund and united nations collaborative programme on reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries . c bilateral climate finance data are sourced from biennial reports from parties included in annex ii to the convention ( that further inc
imate change frameworks and priorities , as well as broader economic development policies and national budgetary planning ; ( k ) encourage developing countries to take advantage of available resources through the operating entities of the financial mechanism to strengthen institutional capacity for
ocess and the boar d ’ s decisions on the inputs and processes related to the fund ’ s replenishment,7 which take into account the needs of developing countries ; 6. stresses the urgency to reach pledges for the first formal replenishment process aiming to conclude the process in october 2019 ; 7. t
adaptation plans , and that other channels of bilateral , multilateral and domestic support have also contributed significantly to enabling developing countries to advance their work in the process to for mulate and implement national adaptation plans ; 10. welcomes the approval by the green climate
 national adaptation plans ; 10. welcomes the approval by the green climate fund secretariat , as at 4 december 2018 , of 22 proposals from developing countries under the green climate fund readiness and preparatory support programme to suppo rt the formulation of national adaptation plans 1 see doc
ation to climate change in providing information on methodologi es for understanding baselines and progression of vulnerability and risk to developing countries ; 21. welcomes the efforts of the world meteorological organization and other relevant organizations in providing capacity -building to dev
ies ; 21. welcomes the efforts of the world meteorological organization and other relevant organizations in providing capacity -building to developing countries , as appr opriate , on the analysis of climate data and the development and application of climate change scenarios in vulnerability and ri
in annex i to the convention to enhancing capacity -building and participation in measurement , reporting and verification arrangements for developing countries under the convention , recognizing that the consultative group of experts plays an important role in facilitating technical advic e and sup
 to address the needs of developing country parties , in accordance with decision 1/cp.16 ; 2 12. emphasiz es the continued challenges that developing countries face in accessing financial , technology and capacity -building support , and recognizes the urgent need to 1 intergovernmental panel on cl
men and men can often differ owing to historical and current gender inequalities and multidimensional factors and can be more pronounced in developing countries and for local communities and indigenous peoples , acknowledging that climate change is a common concern of humankind , parties should , wh
egations at unfccc sessions , as well as funds to support the participation of grass -roots local and indigenous peoples ’ communities from developing countries , the least developed countries and small island developing states , and encourage parti es and relevant organizations to share information
h programme , future earth and the global climate observing system ) and also reflect action taken to support related capacity -building in developing countries . 62. parties shall provide summary information on global climate observing system activities in accordance with paragraph 67 below . to gu
n climate observing systems ; ( c ) terrestrial climate observing systems ; ( d ) cryosphe re climate observing systems ; ( e ) support for developing countries to establish and maintain observing systems and related data and monitoring systems . x. education , training and public awareness 68. in a
ty -building ...................... 5 10/cp.25 fourth comprehensive review of the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in developing countries under the convention ................................ ................................ .................. 8 11/cp.25 matters relating to th
ent national adaptation plans , and that other chann els of bilateral , multilateral and domestic support have also contributed to enabling developing countries to advance their work in the process to formulat e and implement national adaptation plans ; 7. urges developed country parties and invites
 c ) collating , reviewing and sharing information on experience , good practices and lessons learned related to enhancing the ownership of developing countries of building and maintaining capacity , and providing recommendations in this regard ; 3. priority area ( c ) : promoting awareness -raising
2019 fccc/cp/2019/13/add.2 8 decision 10/cp.25 fourth comprehensive review of the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in developing countries under the convention the conference of the parties , recalling decisions 2/cp.7 and 1/cp.21 , 1. notes with appreciation the continued prog
ons 2/cp.7 and 1/cp.21 , 1. notes with appreciation the continued progress in the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in developing countries established under decision 2/cp.7 ( hereinafter referred to as the capacity -building framework ) under the convention , demonstrated by th
city -building framework under the conven tion ( 2017 –2019 ) ; 2. recognizes that , while the objective and scope of capacity -building in developing countries as set out in decision 2/cp.7 are still relevant , current and emerging areas in the context of the convention and the paris agreement shou
ce and lessons learned among parties and capacity -building practitioners ; 9. emphasizes the importance of building long -term capacity in developing countries , including by promoting stro ng domestic ena bling environments ; 10. notes that monitoring and reviewing the impacts of capacity -buildin
ough the durban forum and the paris committee on capacity -building ; 12. invites parties to cooperate in ord er to enhance the capacity of developing countries to implement the convention and the paris agreement , and also invites parties , as appropriate , and other stakeholders to continue to pro
ment , and also invites parties , as appropriate , and other stakeholders to continue to provide support for capacity -building action s in developing countries ; 13. concludes the fourth comprehensive review of the implementation of the capacity - building framework under the convention ; fccc/cp/2
unt approv ed by the board to usd 5.6 billion to support the implementation of 124 adaptation and mitigation projects and programmes in 105 developing countries ; ( b ) the increase in the number of entities accredited by the b oard , which bring s the total number of accredited entities to 95 , of 
erview of financial flows , including in relation to article 2 , paragraph 1 ( c ) , of the paris agreement , and determination of needs of developing countries 1 320 572 sb102 -004 full support to all potential reviews of national reporting , including reporting related to redd + 3 843 460 sb102 -0
cf , the tec and the pccb 995 650 sb200 -004 support for the full extent of short -term activities of the cge , in particular in support of developing countries ’ reporting 10 651 195 sb200 -007 support for the full extent of short -term activities of the compliance committees under the kyoto protoc
action ; 2. acknowledges that the impacts of climate change exacerbate the global energy and food crises , and vice versa , particularly in developing countries ; fccc/cp/2022/10/add.1 3 3. stresses that the increasingly complex and challenging global geopolitical situation and its impact on the ene
ommunication s ; 23. highlights the role of the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund in supporting actions by developing countries to address climate change , 7 decision 1/cp.26 , para . 19. fccc/cp/2022/10/add.1 5 welcomes the pledges made to the two funds and invites 
tive response to loss and damage ; 26. expresses deep concern regarding the significant financial costs associated with loss and damage for developing countries , resulting in a growing debt burden and impairing t he realization of the sustainable development goals ; 27. welcomes the consideration ,
ted role in catalysing technical assistance for the implementation of the relevant approaches at the local , national and regional level in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change , and affirms its determination to select the host of the secreta
rning and systematic observation 29. emphasizes the need to address existing gaps in the global c limate observing system , particularly in developing countries , and recognizes that one third of the world , including 60 per cent of africa , does not have access to early warning and climate informat
ation has not yet been met and u rges developed country parties to meet the goal ; 11 37. emphasizes that accelerated financial support for developing countries from developed countries and other sources is critical to enhancing mitigation action and addressing inequities in access to finance , incl
 addressing inequities in access to finance , including its costs , terms and conditions , and economic vulnerability to climate change for developing countries , 12 and that scaled -up public grants for mitigation and adaptation for vulnerable regions , in particular sub- saharan africa , would be 
ee on finance . 2022. report on progress towards achieving the goal of mobilizing jointly usd 100 billio n per year to address the needs of developing countries in the context of meaningful mitigation actions and transparency on implementation . bonn : unfccc . available at https : //unfccc.int/proc
ww.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg2/ . fccc/cp/2022/10/add.1 7 38. notes that global climate finance flows are small relative to the overall needs of developing countries , with such flows in 2019 –2020 estimated to be usd 803 billion,13 which is 31– 32 per cent of the annual investment needed to keep the glo
ion ( november 2024 ) 17 with the aim of supporting the implementation of relevant activities , such as those identified and prioritized in developing countries ’ nationally determined contributions , national adaptation plans , technology needs assessments and technology action plans , and long- te
nts and technology action plans , and long- term strategies ; xi . capacity -building 47. notes that capacity gaps and needs still exist in developing countries and calls on developed country parties to increase support for long- term country -driven capacity -building interventions to enhance the e
amme on gender and its gender action plan , to raise climate ambition and achieve climate goals ; 58. invites parties to provide support to developing countries for undertaking gender - related action and implementing the gender action plan ; 59. recognizes the role of children and youth as agents o
s and damage ” , 1. acknowledge the urgent and immediate need for new , additional , predictable and adequate financial resources to assist developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change in responding to economic and non- economic loss and damage assoc
d ex post ( including rehabilitation , recovery and reconstruction ) action ; 2. decide to establish new funding arrangements for assisting developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change , in responding to loss and damage , including with a focus on ad
 exposed millions of people , especially small- scale farmers , those from low -income households , indigenous peoples , women and youth in developing countries , to acute food and water insecurity and that , according to the food and agriculture organization of the united nations , more than 800 mi
 7. requests the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group to continue to identify the priority gaps and needs of developing countries relat ed to the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans , the progress of each country in this process and any obstacl
es developed and the scientific resources synthesized by the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group can assist developing countries in addressing gaps and needs related to the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans , including in assessing adaptatio
ority gaps and needs referred to in paragraph 7 above and in enhancing the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans for developing countries ; 13. notes with serious concern the findings on adaptation gaps in the contribution of working group ii to the sixth assessment report of 
nimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change at the local , national and regional level in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change ; 1 “ 2 . expresses its appreciation to the government of denmark
on of relevant approaches to averting , minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects o f climate change in developing countries in support of the functions set out in paragraph 9 of decision 19/cma.3 ; “ 5 . also recalls decision 1/cma.3 , paragraph 70 , which urges 
e sixty- first sessions of the subsidiary bodies ( november 2024 ) ; “ 15 . also requests the secretariat to continue providing support for developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change that may seek or wish to benefit from the technical assistance av
t organizations , bodies , networks and experts for the implementation of relevant approaches at the local , national and regional level in developing countries that are particularly vulnera ble to the adverse effects of climate change . 1 ii . functions 2. cma 3 decided that the santiago network is
 , bodies , networks and experts , for the implementation of relevant approaches to averting , minimizing and addressing loss and damage in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adver se effects of climate change by assisting in : ( i ) identifying , prioritizing and communica
, bodies , networks and experts , across communities of practices , and for them to deliver effective and efficient technical assistance to developing countries ; * annex i to decision 12/cma.4 , endorsed by the conference of the parties in this decision . 1 decision 2/cma . 2 , para . 43 . 2 decisi
ploring synergies with other initiatives and networks ; ( c ) receiving , assessing and managing the process of responding to requests from developing countries that are particularly v ulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change for technical assistance to avert , minimize and address loss an
n understanding the dynamics of various countries ; ( d ) have a track record of facilitating technical assistance and building capacity in developing countries and communities that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change ; ( e ) have demonstrated experience in managing 
ent and management capability ; ( c ) have demonstrated an ability to simultaneously administer and manage multiple and complex projects in developing countries ; ( d ) be able to manage and maintain information systems to enable sharing of best practices and lessons learned ; ( e ) be able to guara
 -term finance a nd work related to the activities referred to in paragraph 11 below ; 7. reiterates the need for grant -based resources in developing countries , in particular for adaptation , and in particular for the least developed countries and small island developing states ; 8. also reiterate
standing committee on finance on progress towards achieving the goal of mobilizing jointly usd 100 billion per year to address the needs of developing countries in the context of meaningful mitigation actions and transparency on implementation , and the quantitative and qualitative information prese
g a summary of key findings , on progress towards achieving the goal of mobilizing jointly usd 100 billion per year to address the needs of developing countries in the context of meaningful mitigation actions and transparency o n implementation , taking into account other relevant reports , for cons
 6 per cent from the annual average reported for 2017 –2018 ; the annual average of cli mate finance from multilateral development banks to developing countries and emerging economies3 ( usd 45.9 billion ) represents a 17 per cent increase since 2017 –2018 ; and unfccc funds and multilateral climate
projects in 2019 and 2020 respectively ; 4. notes with concern that global climate finance flows are small relative to the overall needs of developing countries ; 5. also notes with concern that , despite the clear increasing trend in global climate finance flows , they remain at a relatively low le
standing committee on finance on progress towards achieving the goal of mobilizing jointly usd 100 billion per year to address the needs of developing countries in the context of meaningful mitigation actions and transparency on implementation ; 6 13. notes with concern that the draft guidance for t
upport tracking the consistency of finance flows ( see also the box below ) ; ( b ) an overview of climate fin ance flows from developed to developing countries , and available information on domestic climate finance , cooperation among developing countries2 and other climate -related finance flows 
 ba . 2 for the purpose of the overview of climat e finance in the ba , various data sources are used to illustrate flows from developed to developing countries , without prejudice to the meaning of those terms in the context of the convention and the paris agreement , including but not limited to f
 on international climate finance flows are compiled using various methodologies and have varying interpretations . flows from developed to developing countries – covering finance provided , mobilized and received – include a mix of data based on dis bursements to projects and recipients in the give
 by parties . cma 3 adopted new tables for reporting b y parties under the paris agreement on climate finance provided to and mobilized for developing countries and climate finance needed and received by developing countries . the new tables will be used for reporting from the end of 2024 in biennia
 under the paris agreement on climate finance provided to and mobilized for developing countries and climate finance needed and received by developing countries . the new tables will be used for reporting from the end of 2024 in biennial transparen cy reports . a number of improvements will facilita
can make it difficult to compile and aggregate data . 5. systems to track domestic public climate finance are growing in both developed and developing countries . twenty -four jurisdictions have established tracking systems for national budgets , with a further 24 countries having methodologies for 
 global climate finance flows in 2017 –2020 and figure 2 provides an overview of global climate finance and finance flows from developed to developing countries in 2019 –2020 . 6 fccc/cp/2022/8/add . 3−fccc/pa/cma/2022/7/add . 3 and fccc/cp/2022/8/add . 4−fccc/pa/cma/2022/7/add . 4. fccc/cp/2022/10/
proximately 76 per cent ( usd 392 billion ) of climate -related recovery spending was announced by developed countries and the remainder by developing countries , particularly those in asia . data from climate budget tagging systems and other sources indicated domestic public climate finance amounte
ms and other sources indicated domestic public climate finance amounted to usd 134 billion per year in 2019 –2020 , half of which was in 21 developing countries and the other half in 6 developed countries or jurisdictions . figure 2 climate finance flows in 20 19–2020 ( billions of united states dol
ion to finance mobilized through bila teral and multilateral channels and institutions . 12. public climate finance flows from developed to developing countries increased by between 6 and 17 per cent , depending on the source , in 2019 –2020 compared with 2017–2018 . preliminary data from annex ii p
ion in 2019 –2020 represents a 1 7 per cent increase compared with the 2017 –2018 amount . the attribution of these flows from developed to developing countries is calculated at usd 29.3–30.5 billion in 2019 and usd 28.2–33.2 billion in 2020 . 16. data on private climate finance flows to develop ing
s is difficult . further , data sources often do not specify whether private funds are sourced from private sector entities in developed or developing countries a nd whether these funds are received by public or private sector entities from developed or developing countries . oecd estimates that pri
 entities in developed or developing countries a nd whether these funds are received by public or private sector entities from developed or developing countries . oecd estimates that private climate finance mobilized by developed countries through bilateral and multilateral channels amounted to usd 
cified as coming from bilateral institutions in developed countries or multilateral institutions and 15 per cent from institutions based in developing countries ; the or igin of the finance was unspecified for the remaining amount . 18. trends in south –south climate finance flows varied depending o
on in 2017 –2018 to usd 2.6 billion in 2019 –2020 . overall , the availability of data on and the coverage of climate finance flows between developing countries remain limited . c. assessment of climate finance flows 19. the collective goal of jointly mobilizing usd 100 billion per year by 2020 to a
 assessment of climate finance flows 19. the collective goal of jointly mobilizing usd 100 billion per year by 2020 to address the needs of developing countries in the context of meaningful mitigation action and transparency on implementation was not fully met in 2020 .7 20. more public finance flow
eaningful mitigation action and transparency on implementation was not fully met in 2020 .7 20. more public finance flows from developed to developing countries are for mitigation than for adaptation , yet adaptation finance has grown significantly through bilateral channels and mdbs . in 2019 –2020
formation see document fccc/cp/2022/8−fccc/pa/cma/2022/7 . fccc/cp/2022/10/add.2 14 figure 3 public climate finance flows from developed to developing countries in 2019–2020 , by theme , source and financial instrument source : analysis of oecd development assistance committee creditor reporting sys
llowed by africa ( average of 27 per cent ) and latin america and the caribbean ( average of 16 per cent ) . the remainder was shared among developing countries of eastern and southern europe and oceania.8 on a per capita basis , the less populous developing country regions oceania and eastern and s
e by volume and on a per capita basis in 2019–2020 25. between 2016 and 2020 , private climate finance mobilized by developed countries for developing countries through bilateral and multilateral channels totalled usd 66.8 billion . of this amount , 86 per cent was mobilized for mitigation actions ,
gr egated and other gender -related data to evaluate outcomes . 30. global climate finance flows are small relative to the overall needs of developing countries . global climate finance in 2019 –2020 was estimated to be usd 803 billion . this amount is 31 –32 per cent of the annual investment needed
inance provided and received ( a ) , ( b ) , ( c ) , ( d ) improved reporting tables agreed for implementation in 2024 increasing number of developing countries reporting on climate finance received limited capacities and resources to track climate finance received and report on the impacts and outc
es , and others in a position to do so , through technical assistance , policy support and other public interventions for climate action in developing countries ; ( e ) encourage parties and climate finance providers to enhance their methodologies for measuring and reporting on climate finance resul
vel access programmes ; ( d ) encourage development finance institutions , in particular mdbs , to continue their essential role in helping developing countries to deliver on their nationally determined contributions by expanding climate investment through either expanding the availability of develo
ment through either expanding the availability of development assistance or boosting climate -related investment directly ; ( e ) encourage developing countries to take advantage of available modalities and to advance in -country efforts to strengthen institutional capa cities for climate change pro
nd adapting to its i mpacts and contributing to the achievement of the objective of the convention , while taking into account the needs of developing countries ; 3. further welcomes the progress under the green climate fund in 2022 , including in relation to actions taken by the bo ard in response 
amount approved by the board to usd 11.3 billion to support implementation of 209 adaptation and mitigat ion projects and programmes in 128 developing countries ; ( b ) the increase in the number of entities accredited by the board , which brings the total number of accredited entities to 114 , of w
l capacities ; 8. underscores the importance of the green climate fund ’ s role in supporting the implementation of actions associated with developing countries ’ adaptation priorities and urges the board to improve technical and capacity -building support for the development of projects and program
tion ; 3 9. requests the board to continue to enhance support for the formulation and implementation of national adaptation plans to enable developing countries to take effective adaptation action ; 10. welcomes the continued support of the board under the readiness and preparator y support programm
gramme for enhancing support for technology development and transfer and capacity -building and encourages the board to continue to support developing countries in this regard ; 11. also encourages the board to continue work on the request for proposals to establish technology incubators and acceler
regard ; 11. also encourages the board to continue work on the request for proposals to establish technology incubators and accelerators in developing countries ; 12. requests the board to continue to accredit direct access entities , especially national and regional entities and instituti ons , in 
phasizing the need for adaptation as stated in decision 7/cp.20 , paragraph 12 ; 14. requests the board to continue to address the needs of developing countries that are particularly vulne rable to the adverse effects of climate change ; 15. invites the board to enhance support for the least develop
s of climate change ; 15. invites the board to enhance support for the least developed countries , small island developing states and other developing countries in developing project pipelines and proposals , as well as for adaptation a ctions associated with the priorities in their national adaptat
urages the board to continue supporting results -based payments through policy approaches and incentives for enhancing the contributions of developing countries to global mitigati on efforts through the implementation of activities relating to reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degrada
tion and de -risk investments , including by providing early -stage and grant -based financing to the local private sector and start-ups in developing countries ; 2 governing instrument for the green climate fund , paras . 29 –30 . 3 in accordance with decision 1/cp.21 , para . 46 . 4 as referred to
ies fund and the special climate change fund during the eighth replenishment of the global environment facility so as to effectively assist developing countries ; 10. requests the global environment facility to continue to foster greater diversity of its implementing agencies , building on the compa
 of the financial mechanism and strongly encourages the two bodies to continue such collaboration with a view t o enhancing the capacity of developing countries to prepare project proposals and facilitating their access to available funding for technology development and transfer ; 1 fccc/sb/202 2/4
 implementation in its next annual report ; 20. also e ncourages the climate technology centre and network to continue providing support to developing countries , on request , including those that have not yet received support for technical assistance from the climate technology centre and network ,
 network , including by mobilizing private sector entities and network members , with a view to building and strengthening the cap acity of developing countries to assess their technology needs , develop and implement technology action plans , scale up technical assistance and access available fundi
g gaps and needs related to formulating and implementing national adaptation plans ; 5 9. notes that capacity gaps and needs still exist in developing countries pertaining to the implementation of the convention ; 1 fccc/sbi/2022/14 . 2 fccc/sbi/2022/14 , chap . iii . 3 fccc/sbi/2020/13 , annex i . 
f environmental - economic accounting ) ; ( c ) establish capacity -building partnerships and networks for increasing the representation of developing countries in the use and development of impact assessment tools and methods for assessing the impacts of the implementation of response measures ; ( 
 2022 global climate observing system implementation plan ; 3. emphasizes the need to address systematic observation gaps , particularly in developing countries and for ocean , mountain , desert and polar regio ns and the cryosphere in order to improve understanding of climate change , climate -rela
ommitment undertaken by developed country parties to a goal of mobilizing jointly usd 1 00 billion annually by 2020 to address the needs of developing countries in the context of meaningful mitigation actions and transparency on implementation , noting that biennial high -level ministerial dialogues
rties under article 7 , paragraph 3 ( ac/leg ; sbsta/sbi ) ( f ) methodologies to facilitate the mobilization of support for ada ptation in developing countries ( ac/leg , in collaboration with scf ; sbsta/sbi ) ( g ) methodologies on reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of adaptation and suppor
 integrate into their work efforts to avert , minimize and address loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change , vulnerable populations and the ecosystems that they depend on ;
, urgent and emerging needs related to extreme weather events and slow onset events , including but not limited to drought and flood s , in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change , vulnerable populations and the ecosystems that they depend on ;
tion actions and transpa rency on implementation , to a goal of mobilizing jointly usd 100 billion per year by 2020 to address the needs of developing countries , in accordance with decision 1/cp.16 , and urges developed country parties to continue to scale up mobilized climate finan ce towards this
nd ; 8. confirms that the green climate fund will finance agreed full and agreed incremental costs to enable and support enhanced action by developing countries to tackle climate change in line with the relevant provisions in the governing instrument of the green climate fund ; 9. welcomes the launc
ce of the existing allocation for climate change , requests the global environment facility to further consider the needs and priorities of developing countries in the allocation for the climate change focal area in its seventh replenishment period ; 7. requests the global environment facility to co
s for developed country parties and the ica process for developing country parties 2 400 295 21 supporting the work of the cge in assisting developing countries with the implementation of the mrv/transparency frameworks 3 018 050 infrastructure support to implementation 22 connecting stakeholders 39
tional adaptation plans to reduce vulnerability to the impacts of climate change by building adaptive capacity and increasing resilience in developing countries and recognizing the role of the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans in making progress towards the global goal on 
rt group to accelerate the for mulation and implementation of national adaptation plans in the least developed countries and inviting other developing countries to take part in this initiative , recognizing the continued support of the adaptation committee , the least developed countries expert grou
e to prepare a report in 2022 on progress towards achieving the goal of mobilizing jointly usd 100 billion per year to address the needs of developing countries in the context of meaningful mitigation actions and transparency on implementation , taking into account the climate finance delivery plan 
 the annual average reported for 2015– 2016 ; the annual aver age of climate finance from multilateral development banks ’ own resources to developing countries and emerging economies ( usd 36.6 bill ion ) represents a 50 per cent increase since 2015 –2016 ; and unfccc funds and multilateral climate
 ries and all regions as a result of limited availability of information and acknowledges that financial and technical support will enhance developing countries ’ abilities to updat e the reporting of qualitative and quantitative information and data on their needs ; 15. expresses its concern that t
cations for international efforts to address climate change . the fourth ba includes an overview of climate finance flows from developed to developing countries , 3 and available information on domestic climate finance , cooperation among developing countries and other climate -related flows that co
 climate finance flows from developed to developing countries , 3 and available information on domestic climate finance , cooperation among developing countries and other climate -related flows that constitute global climate finance . it assesses the key featu res of climate finance flows , includin
 d ) . 3 for the purpose of the overview of climate finance in the ba , various data sources are used to illustrate flows from developed to developing countries , without prejudice to the meaning of those terms in the context of the convention and the paris agreement , including but not limited to a
inance flows , with the issuance of green sovereign bonds incentivizing the establishment of regular tracking systems in both developed and developing countries , building on previous work through cpeir s. thirteen countries have established tracking systems for national budgets , with a further fiv
tion of the ba and the overall transparency and effectiveness of the unfccc process by highlighting the link between the level of action of developing countries and the level of support provided and , ultimately , the achievement of t he objectives of the convention and the paris agreement . in this
ows in 2015– 2018 by sector , and figure 2 provides an overview of global climate finance and finance flows in 2017– 2018 from developed to developing countries . figure 1 global climate finance flows in 2015– 2018 ( billions of united states dollars ) 23. continued decreases in renewable energy tec
ble , the data have been integrated in the time series retroactively to allow for trend comparisons . 25. climate finance from developed to developing countries increased through various channels . total public financial support reported by annex ii parties in their brs submitted ( as at october 202
8 billion to 28.0 billion in 2018 . 29. the uncertainty of the data on the geographic sources and destinations of private finance f lows to developing countries remains significant . oecd estimates that private climate finance mobilized by developed countries through bilateral and multilateral chann
 have increased , but data availability and coverage remain limited . while data availability and coverage of climate finance flows between developing countries remain limited , it is a growing area of global climate finance flows . several countries voluntarily report to standardized reporting syst
ystems such as oecd dac . up to 20 development finance institutions that are idfc members are based in non-oecd countries , and mdbs led by developing countries such as the asian infrastructure develo pment bank and the new development bank continue to increase finance flows . estimates of south –so
ncessional climate finance , including bilateral flows , multilateral climate funds and funds from mdbs , point to increasing flows towards developing countries from multilateral sources , while bilateral climate finance flows hav e stagnated . 33. support for mitigation remains greater than support
, special climate change fund and united nations collaborative programme on reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries . c bilateral climate finance data are sourced from annex ii parties ’ brs ( that further inclu de regional and other channels ) for the an
017 –2018 , there continued to be a push to diversify modalities of access to climate finance . in a 2019 survey of 105 respondents from 45 developing countries , 73 per cent identified finance from multilateral climate funds as the most challenging source of finance to access compared with private 
finance ( 62 per cent ) , mdbs and development finance institutions ( 30 per cent ) and bilateral sources ( 17 per cent ) . institutions in developing countries are increasingly able to meet fiduciary and environmental and social safeguards requirements for accessing funds . d ata show a continued i
ast , relatively few relevant actions by nationa l governments are framed in the context of article 2 , paragraph 1 ( c ) . particularly in developing countries , the ability to access international climate finance in the context of article 9 is mentioned , as is directing domestic finance flows tow
 . a number of initiatives relevant to article 2 , paragraph 1 ( c ) , include representation from different regions and both developed and developing countries . for private finance actors , such representation is important , and it reveals how different relative starting points , capacity and skil
n action with the goals of the paris agreement or into classifications of consistency with those goals , including in supporting vulnerable developing countries at risk of climate impacts in gaining access to capital to support their climate -resilient development , and in supporting the shift of tr
utting needs ( 50 per cent ) , noting that the costed needs expressed as cross -cutting are largely a reflection of one ndc . although some developing countries provided information on costed needs for mitigation and adaptation by sector and subsector , this information was not provided across all r
 accurate overall amount of costed needs by sector and subsector in the first ndr . table 1 overview of sources of reported costed needs of developing countries by typ e of national report submitted to the unfccc costed needs ( usd billion ) report total mitigation adaptation cross- cutting other ac
 166 ndcs included costed needs , cumulatively amounting to usd 168.2 –168.3 billion , of which almost 60 per cent was in one ndc . ndcs of developing countries from the eastern european region included 282 needs , of which 112 were costed , cumulat ively amounting to usd 9.36 billion . ( ii ) regio
ns of the actual needs across regions . fccc/cp/2021/12/add.1 37 ( b ) insights from qualitative dat a on needs figure 2 needs expressed by developing countries in national reports by theme , region and means of implementation fccc/cp/2021/12/add.1 38 figure 3 needs expressed by developing countries
developing countries in national reports by theme , region and means of implementation fccc/cp/2021/12/add.1 38 figure 3 needs expressed by developing countries in national reports by sector fccc/cp/2021/12/add.1 39 ( i ) thematic distribution 22. overall , needs related to adaptation are mentioned 
mentioned more often than those related to mitigation in all report types except burs and leds , indicating greater attention to supporting developing countries ’ expressed adaptation needs . for example , as shown in figure 2 , ndcs i ncluded 1,991 needs for adaptation and 1,956 for mitigation . ( 
ow a significant prevalence of capacity -building and technology development and transfer needs , which may in part be due to the resources developing countries can access to support the identification of t hese needs . the number of capacity - building needs is higher than finance needs and technol
t and sustainable development . 2. information and data from reports by regional and global actors 33. information and data on the needs of developing countries are also available from regional and global reports . for the mitigat ion needs of developing countries , these reports use a mix of climat
nformation and data on the needs of developing countries are also available from regional and global reports . for the mitigat ion needs of developing countries , these reports use a mix of climate economic modelling for scenarios of below 2 °c , ranging from usd 2.4 trillion to usd 4.7 trillion in 
nts representing various sectors and interest groups at both the national and subnational level was noted in the reports of the majority of developing countries . 40. institutional arrangements for needs determ ination vary widely across countries . however , in most countries the ministry responsib
 funds , multilateral development banks and united nations agencies 45. mdbs and united nations agencies play a critical role in supporting developing countries in their needs identification process . in most cases , these agencies use experts during country -driven needs identification consultation
these agencies use experts during country -driven needs identification consultation forums to provide insights and share data that may help developing countries better identify and report their needs . 46. in other instances , mdbs and united nations agencies provide financial and technical support 
ter identify and report their needs . 46. in other instances , mdbs and united nations agencies provide financial and technical support for developing countries in the needs identification process . this support i s used to carry out in- depth sectoral analysis to identify pathways within these sect
gies and und erlying assumptions used in determining the needs of developing country parties 1. methodologies used at the national level by developing countries in national reports 48. developing country parties identify adaptation and mitigation needs in preparing their national reports , following
sess their needs on the basis of methodologies developed for application at the national or international level . 52. methodologies used by developing countries to determine mitigation needs include both top-down and bottom -up models for the energy and non- energy sectors . bottom -up models are su
enhouse gas inventory preparation , waste , transport , agriculture , forestry , building and indust ry sectors . 53. methodologies used by developing countries to determine adaptation needs mostly include vulnerability assessments that determine the levels of risk and vulnerability for each sector 
tify finance , technology development and transfer , and capacity -building needs . such reports have provided alternative methodologies to developing countries that have been adapted to national circumstances and contexts and used to determine national needs . d. challenges , opportunities and gaps
s have been established by various institutions , including united nations agencies and mdbs . these platforms offer a good opportunity for developing countries to share their experience and good practices in the needs identification process . most developing countries are already using these platfo
s offer a good opportunity for developing countries to share their experience and good practices in the needs identification process . most developing countries are already using these platforms to share their experience . 57. several initiatives have been established that can help in the needs iden
overlaps ; ( d ) use of case studies to highlight good practices and lessons learned in determining needs . ( b ) challenges experienced by developing countries 61. institutional coordination was highlight ed as a major challenge in the needs determination process . the coordination challenge affect
g resilience needs , and , in this context , deriving cost estimates for averting , minimizing and addressing loss and damage needs , since developing countries ’ adaptation actions can not always be included in short -term projects , but rather require long- term interventions that are difficult to
cluded in short -term projects , but rather require long- term interventions that are difficult to estimate in monetary terms . 3. gaps 63. developing countries have taken significant steps to improve their needs determination process but capacity gaps within lead institutions continue to hinder pro
evel capacity . 64. limited availability of granular data at the sector and subsector level constitutes one of the major gaps identified by developing countries . as a result , many developing countries provide cost estimates for overall needs rather than disaggregated by theme or sector . 65. the l
f granular data at the sector and subsector level constitutes one of the major gaps identified by developing countries . as a result , many developing countries provide cost estimates for overall needs rather than disaggregated by theme or sector . 65. the lack of specialized national institutions t
 of implementation under the convention , such as technology development and transfer , and capacity -building , limits the ability of some developing countries to track needs continuously and identify additional and emerging needs . 66. limited detailed guidance on the structure and content of repo
 sdg 13 that relates to taking action to address climate change , and sdg 13 affects all the other sdgs . overall , the needs identified by developing countries touch on all sdgs , with 75 per cent of ndcs having linkages to sdgs 2 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 11 , 12 , 13 , 15 and 17 . 70. in their national r
ties in identifying and costing needs ; ( f ) invite the operating entities of the financial mechanism to revise templates and guidance for developing countries when supporting their processes in identifying their needs with a view to enhancing availability of granular information on qualitative and
 agencies , multilateral and bilateral financial institutions and other relevant institutions to provide financial and technical support to developing countries for updating the reporting of their qualitative and quantitative information and data on needs t o be considered in subsequent ndrs , as ap
al amount approved by the board to usd 10 billion to support implementation of 190 adaptation and mitigation projects and programmes in 127 developing countries ; ( b ) the increase in the number of entities accredited by the board , which brings the total number of accredited entities to 112 , of w
ntributions to the global environment facility to contribute to a robust eighth replenishment of the global environment facility to support developing countries in impleme nting the convention and encourages additional voluntary financial contributions to the eighth replenishment of the global envir
cility , during its discussions on the instrument under the eighth replenishment , to continue to take into account needs and priorities of developing countries , as well as their diff erent national circumstances ; 12. requests the global environment facility to consider updating its policy on gend
ent with the private sector and n etwork members ; 24. invites the climate technology centre and network to continue its efforts to support developing countries in preparing and updating technology needs assessments and technology action plans , as well as their implementation , upon request ; 25. a
vites the climate technology centre and network to continue providing support for enhancing the capacity of national designated entities in developing countries to enable them to fu lfil their roles ; 26. encourages developed country national designated entities to consider how they can engage in th
climate technology centre and network to enhance its provision of support for strengthening the capacity of national designated entities in developing countries with a view to enabling them to fulf il their roles ; 19. reiterates that enhanced and sustainable financial support should be provided to 
ontributions in the context of national development plans and sustainable recovery ; 5 9. notes that capacity gaps and needs still exist in developing countries pertaining to the implementation of the convention and the paris agreement ; 10. invites parties and relevant institutions , as appropriate
 of experts after 2026 , the composition of the consultative group of experts and its terms of reference , taking into account the needs of developing countries for capacity -building in relation to reporting under the unfccc and the paris agreement , with a view to recommending a draft decision on 
hnical expert review of biennial transparency reports ; ( c ) seek to promote sectoral , gender and geographical balance among experts from developing countries eligible to participate in technical expert reviews ; ( d ) facilitate the deve lopment and long -term sustainability of the processes for 
 enhancing the information captured in the reports of the executive committee : ( a ) the type of technical assistance provided ; ( b ) the developing countries to which technical assistance was provided and when ; ( c ) the involvement of and collaboration among stakeholders at the local , subnatio
tworks and experts from all regions , working at the local , subnational , national , regional and international level , including those in developing countries and those that are represented in the expert groups of the executive committee , to engage in the santiago network for averting , minimizin
ion of their ongoing efforts ; “ 8 . acknowledges that the entities referred to in paragraph 7 above , particularly those that are based in developing countries , may need support , including financial support , in providing technical assistance ; “ 9 . decides that the santiago network is to have t
 , bodies , networks and experts , for the implementation of relevant approaches to averting , minimizing and addressing loss and damage in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable t o the adverse effects of climate change by assisting in : ( i ) identifying , prioritizing and communica
, bodies , networks and experts , across communities of practices , and for them to deliver effective and efficient technical assistance to developing countries ; 3 as per decision 2/ cma.2 , para . 44 . 4 as contained in the annex to document fccc/sb/2017 /1/add.1 . 5 decision 2/cp.19 , para . 5. f
ody at its next session or the governing bodies at their next session s ; “ 11 . requests the secretariat to continue providing support for developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change that may seek or wish to benefit f rom the technical assistance a
hnology and capacity -building , for the implementation of relevant approaches8 to aver ting , minimizing and addressing loss and damage in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change , the executive committee , on the basis of its recommendation s 
mstances of parties and reflects their national priorities and initiatives while building long-term capacity and expertise in developed and developing countries for implementing ace , including by promoting strong domestic enabling environments . 2. the glasgow work programme builds on work undertak
broadened beyond the unfccc process as a result of the virtual format of meetings and workshops , some participants , particularly those in developing countries , continue to experience significant challenges related to internet acces s and connecti vity and the technological equipment required for 
climate finance flows , including in relation to article 2 , paragraph 1 ( c ) , of the paris agreement , and determination of the needs of developing countries 1 390 000 1.6 1.2 sb102 -004 full support for the technical reviews of national reports ( including redd+ ) under the mrv/transparency proc
vities envisaged in the workplans of the scf , the tec and the paris committee on capa city-building 1 105 000 2 0.5 sb200 -004 support for developing countries to implement mrv and the etf , including through the work of the cge 5 919 000 4.7 1.5 sb200 -007 support for the full extent of activities
ents for 2022 –2023 eur p staff gs staff sb400 -003 enhanced engagement with parties and other stakeholders to strengthen the capacities of developing countries with respect to the implementation of ndcs and naps 2 060 000 0.6 1.4 sb400 -004 additional support and enhanced engagement for the develop
