most all parties to the convention ; 3. congratulates parties to the convention that have ratified , accepted or approved the paris agreement and invites those that have not done so to deposit their instruments of ratification , acceptance , approval or accession , where appropriate , with the depo
seeing the implementation of the work programme under the paris agreement in accordance with the arrangements contai ned in decision 1/cp.21 ; 5. invites the conference of the parties to continue to oversee the implementation of the work programme under the paris agreement in accordance with the ar
ed in conjunction with the twenty -fourth session of the conference of the parties ( december 2018 ) for its consideration and adoption ; 6. also invites the conference of the parties to continue to oversee the work on further guidance in relation to the adaptation communication , including , inter
lly determined con tributions , referred to in article 7 , paragraphs 10 and 11 , of the paris agreement ; fccc/pa/cma/2016/ 3/add.1 3 7. further invites the conference of the parties to continue to oversee the work on the development of modalities and procedures for the operation and use of a publ
of modalities and procedures for the operation and use of a public registry referred to in article 7 , paragraph 12 , of the paris agreement ; 8. invites the conference of the parties to request the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice , the subsidiary body for implementation , t
tion iii of decision 1/cp.21 , and to forward the outcomes to the conference of the parties at its twe nty-fourth session at the latest ; 9. also invites the conference of the parties to request the ad hoc working group on the paris agreement to continue its consideration of possible additional mat
cp.21 , 1/cp.22 , 1/cp.23 and 1/cp.24 , 1. congratulates parties that have ratified , accepted , approved or acceded to the paris agreement , and invites those that have not yet done so to deposit their instruments of ratification , acceptance , approval or accession , where appropriate , with the 
ing the paris agreement to continue t o provide , within their mandates , support for capacity -building as referred to in paragraph 1 above ; 3. invites other organizations in a position to do so to provide support for capacity - building as referred to in paragraph 1 above ; 4. recalls that the l
ts , to be held for two days , in conjunction with the sessions of the subsidiary bodies starting from their fiftieth sessions ( june 2019 ) ; 8. invites parties to nominate members to serve on the katowice committee on impacts , noting that the chairs of the subsidiary bodies shall be notified of 
e workplan of the forum , starting from the ir fifty-sixth sessions ( june 2022 ) , with a view to enhancing the effectiveness of the forum ; 11. invites parties to submit their views on the workplan of the forum and the katowice committee on impacts via the submission portal1 by 15 april 2019 ; 12
y maintained by the secretariat in accord ance with the modalities and procedures contained in decision 10/cma.1 ; fccc/pa/cma/2018/3/add.1 24 6. invites parties that choose to submit an adaptation communication to do so in time to inform each global stocktake ; 7. also invites parties , according 
a/2018/3/add.1 24 6. invites parties that choose to submit an adaptation communication to do so in time to inform each global stocktake ; 7. also invites parties , according to their national circumstances and capacities , to provide in their adaptation communication information on the elements ref
of the annex and to provide , as appropriate , additional information on the elements referred to in paragraph ( e –i ) of the annex ; 8. further invites parties to include , as appropriate , ex ante information in their adaptation communication based on the elements identified in the annex ; 9. ac
 a component of or in conjunction with a nationally determined contribution to use the guidance included in this decision , as app ropriate ; 12. invites parties that opt to use a nationally determined contribution consistently with article 4 , paragraph 7 , and in line with paragraph 11 above to p
 submissions referred to in paragraph 17 below and the synthesis report referred to in paragraph 18 below , at its eigh th session ( 2025 ) ; 17. invites parties to submit via the submission portal1 by february 2025 information on their experience with the application of the guidance contained in t
above for consideration by the subsidiary body for implementation at its sixty -second session ( 2025 ) ; 19. urges developed country parties and invites other parties that provide resources on a voluntary basis , united nations o rganizations , specialized agencies and other relevant organizations
ions as well as bilateral and multilateral agencies to continue to mobilize support for adaptation activities in developing country parties ; 20. invites the global environment facility , in line wit h its existing mandate , to consider channelling support to developing country parties for the prep
ilding,2 in line with their mandates , to strive for a balance between adaptation and mitigation while respecting a country -driven approach ; 4. invites partner organizations of the nairobi work programme on impacts , vulnerabi lity and adaptation to climate change , in collaboration with the adap
n -related institutional arrangements , in particular by providing relevant scientific and technical information and sharing knowledg e ; 5. also invites the consultative group of experts and the least developed countries expert group , in line with their mandates , as appropriate , ensuring effici
promoting coherence and synergies with a view to addressing parties ’ evolving adaptation -related needs ; 7. urges developed country parties and invites other parties that provide resources on a voluntary basis to make available sufficient resources for the successful and timely implementation of 
the context of national adaptation planning and implementation , and to make the information available on the adaptation knowledge portal ; 3 16. invites parties and observer organizations to submit via the submission portal4 by february 2021 their views and information on the development and appli
ogical advice at its fifty -seventh session ( november 2022 ) in the context of its consideration of the report of the adaptation committee ; 18. invites all relevant entities to further improve the appl icability of existing methodologies and tools for assessing adaptation needs related to action 
ing methodologies and tools for assessing adaptation needs related to action , finance , capacity - building and technological support ; 19. also invites the world meteorological organization , through its global framework for climate services , wit h a view to facilitating the development and appl
ta , and about how it facilitates the provision and dissemination of the most up -to-date climate model predictions and projections ; 20. further invites the paris committee on capacity -building and providers of capacity - building support , as appropriate and in accordance with their mandates , w
capacity ; iv . methodologies for taking the necessary steps to facilitate the mobilization of support for adaptation in developing countries 21. invites the standing committee on finan ce , in line with its mandate and in collaboration with the technology executive committee and the paris committe
n the global average temperature referred to in article 2 of the paris agreement , and to include recommendations in its annual report ; 22. also invites parties to further enhance their enabling environments , policy frameworks , institutions and national public financial management systems with a
 international public support , as appropriate , and to enhancing the involvement of the private sector ; 23. urges developed country parties and invites other parties that provide resources on a voluntary basis , united nations entities and other relevant organizations , as well as bilateral and m
 for adaptation , in particular capacity -building , i ncluding as part of the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans ; 24. invites parties to continue engaging in adaptation planning processes and the implementation of action , including the process to formulate and implement
gramming their priority climate actions and for tracking and reporting cli mate finance ; 5 as footnote 1 above . fccc/pa/cma/2018/3/add.1 33 26. invites parties and relevant actors to ensure , as appropriate , that steps are taken to identify and subsequently remove perverse incentives that could 
to report on s upport provided and received in line with the reporting instruments and modalities being developed under the paris agreement ; 28. invites the operating entities of the financial mechanism , in line with their mandates , to seek to ensure that the provision of fi nancial support to d
gy development and transfer for adaptation in developing country parties , promoting a balance between adaptation and mitigation activities ; 30. invites the paris committee on capacity -building to enhance and facilitate the provision of support for capacity -building for adaptation in developing 
tion ; 33. also notes that the current state of knowledge is not sufficient to address the mandate6 and requires time and effort to advance ; 34. invites partie s , academia and other relevant stakeholders to undertake further technical work , building on the existing work of the adaptation committ
 under and outside the convention , on developing methodologies for reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of adaptation and support ; 35. also invites the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group , in collaboration with the standing committee on finance , and relevant 
aph 34 above by continuing to compile existing methodologies for reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of adaptation and support ; 36. further invites parties , united nations entities and other relevant organizations , as well as bilateral and multilateral agencies , to submit by april 2020 to 
 for consideration by the conference of the parties serving as the meeti ng of the parties to the paris agreement at its succeeding session ; 12. invites the conference of the parties to consider the compilation s and syntheses and the summary reports on the in -session workshops referred to in par
ll exclusively serve the paris agreement once the share of proceeds under article 6 , paragraph 4 , of the paris agreement becomes available ; 4. invites the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol to ensure that developing country parties and developed
m the mechanism esta blished by article 6 , paragraph 4 , of the paris agreement and from a variety of voluntary public and private sourc es ; 6. invites the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol to request the adaptation fund board to consider the ru
s that efforts related to the implementation of article 12 of the paris agreement will also be referred to as action for climate empowerment ; 2. invites the conference of the parties , when reviewi ng the doha work programme on article 6 of the convention in accordance with decision 15/cp.18 , to 
lly determined contributions , national adaptation plans , long-term low greenhouse gas emission development strategies and climate policies ; 6. invites parti es to develop and implement national strategies on action for climate empowerment in relation to article 12 of the paris agreement taking i
ies on action for climate empowerment in relation to article 12 of the paris agreement taking into account their national circumstances ; 7. also invites parties and non -party stakeholders to consider relevant act ivities that enhance action for climate empowerment , as referred to in the reports 
 universities , the private sector , civil society organizations and youth to scale up the implementation of action for climate empowerment ; 11. invites parties , multilateral and bilateral institutions , private sector and other potential sources to support activities related to the implementatio
oping states may submit the information referred to in article 13 , paragraphs 7 , 8 , 9 and 10 , of the paris agreement at their discretion ; 5. invites parties and , as appropriate , intergovernmental organizations to nominate technical experts with the relevant qualifications to the unfccc roste
dures and guidelines contained in the annex ; ( c ) a training programme for technical experts participating in the technical expert review ; 13. invites parties to submit their views on the work referred to in paragraph 12 above via the submission portal1 by 31 mar ch 2019 ; 14. notes decision 1/c
rving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement that feature global stocktake activities , in accordance with existing practices ; 12. invites developed country parties to mobilize support for capacity -building so that the least developed countries , small island developing states and o
ng , including for assessing collective progress , and to take the necessary steps for the consideration of inputs as they become available ; 17. invites parties to present their nationally determined contributions , informed by the outcome of the global stocktake , at a special event held under th
eld after the deadline for submission of inputs referred to in paragraph 19 above and prior to the commencement of the technical assessment ; 22. invites the secretariat to start compiling for the technical assessment the most up -to- date inputs from the sources identified in paragraph 37 below tw
nt information identified in paragraph 36 ( b ) below ; ( d ) a synthesis report on the inform ation identified in paragraph 36 ( d ) below ; 24. invites the relevant constituted bodies and forums and other institutional arrangements under or serving the paris agreement and/or the convention2 to pr
 relevant repo rts from regional groups and institutions ; ( i ) submissions from non -party stakeholders and unfccc observer organizations ; 38. invites the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice to complement the non -exhaustive lists in paragraphs 3 6 and 3 7 above at its sessio
 and practical manner ; 13. encourages parties to establish a loss and damage contact point through their respective national focal point ; 5 14. invites parties to promote coherence in approaches to averting , minimizing and addressing loss and damage when formulating and implementing relevant nat
ternational processes , such as the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and the sendai framework for disaster risk reduction 2015 –2030 ; 23. invites the executive committee , acknowledging the need to strengthen risk assessment , to engage relevant experts and collect and disseminate informati
e ; ( c ) resources available for supporting such approaches ; ( d ) monitoring systems for assessing the effectiveness of these approaches ; 27. invites relevant organizations and other stakeholders to collaborate with the executive committee , including through strategic partnerships , in develop
se effects of climate change for averting , minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change ; 36. invites parties to make use of available support relevant for averting , minimizing and addressing impacts related to extreme weather events , slow onset
t the local , national and regional level in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change ; 44. invites the organizations , bodies , networks and experts referred to in paragraph 43 above engaged in providing tec hnical assistance to developing coun
. also d ecides that the priority areas and activities of the paris committee on capacity - building are those contained in decision 9/cp.25 ; 5. invites the paris committee on capacity -building to work c losely with other constituted bodies under the convention and the paris agreement to address 
. underscores the important contribution of the standing committee on finance in relation to the operational definitions of climate finance , and invites parties to submit via the submission portal,6 by 30 april 2020 , their views on the operational definitions of climate 1 fccc/cp/2019/10−fccc/pa/
 and transfer at different stages of the techn ology cycle and achieving a balance between support for mitigation and support for adaptation ; 8. invites the board of the green climate fund to continue providing financial resources for activities relevant to averting , minimizing and addressing los
mate finance architecture , welcomes the new pledges made at this session , urges all contributors to fulfil their pledges in a timely manner and invites the contributors to ensure the sustainability of the resources of the fund ; 41. highlights the role of the least developed countries fund and th
cial climate change fund in supporting actions by developing countries to address climate change , welcomes the pledges made to the two funds and invites developed countries to further contribute to the two funds ; 42. requests the standing committee on finance to prepare a report on the doubling o
t everyone on earth through universal coverage of early warning systems against extreme weather and climate change within the next five years and invites development partners , international financial institutions and the operating entities of the financial mechanism to provide support for implemen
reams/needs -report . 19 see https : //unfccc.int/ttclear/tec/documents.html . fccc/pa/cma/2022/ 10/add.1 10 convention and the paris agreement , invites parties and stakeholders to cooperate and engage with the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network to support
g by fully implementing the lima work programme on gender and its gender action plan , to raise clima te ambition and achieve climate goals ; 86. invites parties to provide support to developing countries for undertaking gender - related action and implementing the gender action plan ; 87. recogniz
ransparency and accountability related to , and progress in ach ieving , the climate pledges of businesses , investors , cities and regions ; 93. invites the secretariat to ensure greater accountability of voluntary initiatives through the non -state actor zone for climate action platform ; 23 94. 
ished prior to each subsequent workshop for consideration at the fifty-ninth sessions of the subsidiary b odies ( november –december 2023 ) ; 16. invites parties and observers to submit by the end of february 2023 , via the submission portal,6 their contributions to and views on the workshops to be
6 their contributions to and views on the workshops to be held in 2023 , including questions related to the themes of those works hops ; 17. also invites parties and observers that wish to do so to submit over the course of 2023 , via the submission portal , additional views on the workshops to be 
kshops to be held in 2023 , noting that views pertaining to a specific workshop should be submitted three we eks in advance thereof ; 18. further invites parties and observers that wish to do so , following the final workshop in 2023 , to submit their views on the outcomes of and work conducted und
t al . ( eds. ) . cambridge : cambridge university press . available at https : //www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg2/ . fccc/pa/cma/2022/ 10/add.1 21 21. invites the intergovernmental panel on climate change to consider updating its 1994 technical guidelines for asses sing climate change impacts and adapta
94 technical guidelines for asses sing climate change impacts and adaptation8 as part of its seventh assessment cycle , as appropriate ; 22. also invites the adaptation committee , with the support of the secretariat , the intergovernmental panel on climate change , as appropriate , and other rele 
ional climate finance providers direct finance flows towards sup porting areas of opportunity to enhance mitigation in this critical decade ; 12. invites parties , observers and other non -party stakeholders to submit via the submission portal2 by 1 february 2023 and every year thereafter suggested
2 above , will decide on and communicate by 1 march 2023 and every year thereafter the topics to be discussed at each dialogue in that year ; 14. invites parties , observers and other non -party stakeholders to submit their views on opportunities , best practices , actionable solutions , challenges
deration and adoption by the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at each of its sessions ; 17. invites the co -chairs of the work programme to make a presentation on the annual report referred to in paragraph 15 above at the annual high -level mini
 ( no vember – december 2023 ) and at the high -level ministerial dialogue on the new collective quantified goal on climate finance in 2023 ; 12. invites parties to submit views on the issues to be addressed as part of the workplan referred to in paragraph 11 ( a ) above vi a the submission portal 
 to facilitate inclusive participation of all parties , in particular developing country parties , and balanced geographical representation ; 15. invites the president of the fifth session of the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement to organize the 
decides that article 6 technical expert review teams will follow the article 6 technical expert review report outline contained in annex iii ; 8. invites parties and , as appropriate , in tergovernmental organizations to nominate technical experts with the relevant qualifications to the unfccc rost
blish the information on the centralized accounting and reporting platform in a disaggregated manner in respect of each participating party ; 14. invites the committee referred to in article 15 , paragraph 2 , to liaise with the article 6 lead reviewers referred to in annex ii , chapter xi.c , as n
rties may face in addressing different elements of the initial report and to support the identification of related capacity -building needs ; 19. invites parties to submit their views on potential challenges in the preparat ion of the reporting on elements listed in the initial report via the submi
referre d to in paragraph 19 above on potential considerations in the preparation of the reporting on elements listed in the initial report ; 21. invites the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice to reflect , at its fifty-eighth session , on the outcome s of the workshop referred 
hnological advice to allow parties t o provide views thereon via the submission portal within four weeks of publication of the requirements ; 27. invites parties to submit views on their experience with the test version of the centralized accounting and reporting platform and the article 6 databas 
paragraph 42 of the rules , modalities and proc edures , including its timing , relevant information on the authorization and any revisions ; 10. invites parties and admitted observer organizations to submit , via the submission portal,3 by 15 march 2023 , their views on the matters referred to in 
 from the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement in decision 3/cma.3 , paragraph 6 ( c –d ) ; 19. invites parties and admitted observer organizations to submit , via the submission portal , by 15 march 2023 , their views on activities involving remova
itation and matching to identify , develop and implement non -market approaches and record the information on the unfccc web -based platform ; 8. invites interested parties , relevant bodies , institutional arrangements and processes under the convention and the paris agreement related to , inter a
as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement , as appropriate ; iv . enhanced networking and collaboration on non -market appr oaches 17. invites parties to use , as appropriate , spin -off groups during the meetings of the glasgow committee on non -market approaches to enable more detailed
ourse relevant o utcomes from the glasgow –sharm el -sheikh work programme on the global goal on adaptation referred to in decision 7/cma.3 ; 11. invites developed country parties to provide financial resources to enable the secretariat to develop and implement the training cours e in a timely mann
t it does not have a potential conflict of interest in the selection process , including by applyi ng appropriate safeguards and procedures ; 20. invites the executive committee to designate four of its members , the climate technology centre and network advisory board and the paris committee on ca
( d ) above , to consider the proposals , ensuring that there is a balanced representation of developed and developing country parties ; 21. also invites the panel to consult , as appropriate , with other constit uted bodies with relevant expertise , including in particular the adaptation committee
recommending it for consideration and approval by the governing body or bodies at their session ( s ) to be held in november –december 2023 ; 25. invites parties to inform the santiago network secretariat of their liaison to the santiago network secretariat , as appropriate for their national circu
y the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at its fifth session ( november –december 2023 ) and invites parties and stakeholders in the financial sector to make further submissions thereon via the submission portal3 by 30 april 2023 ; 5. requests th
orest carbon stocks , sustainably managing forests and enhancing forest carbon stock s , in accordance with article 5 of the paris agreement ; 6. invites the board to take further action in relation to the fund ’ s approach to financing alternative policy approaches to results -based payments , suc
d predictability of adaptation finance , taking into account the role of the adaptation fund in delivering dedicated support for adaptation ; 10. invites developed country parties , including in the context of decision 1/cma.3 , paragraphs 16 –18 , to scale up their financial contributions to the a
continue this work to streamline access modalities for project approval and the interoperability of reporting requirements , as appropriate ; 21. invites the board to adopt a policy on safeguarding against sexual e xploitation and abuse and sexual harassment . 10th plenary meeting 20 november 2022 
. welcomes the collaboration of the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network in their joint work in 20222 and invites them to continue under taking joint work and enhance their exchange of systematic feedback with a view to ensuring coherence and synergy and effe
on , water – energy –food systems , energy systems , buildings and infrastructure , business and industry , and technology needs assessmen t ; 5. invites the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network to jointly pursue collaborat ive partnerships and strategic enga
lication and fragmentation of efforts in the area of innovation ; i. activities and performance of the technology executive committee in 2022 15. invites parties and relevant stakeholders to consi der the relevant key messages and the implementation of recommendations of the technology executive co
eholders to consi der the relevant key messages and the implementation of recommendations of the technology executive committee for 2022 and also invites the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network to consider the recommendations address ed directly to them ; 16
the technology mechanism in supporting the implementation of the paris agreement on matters relating to technology developmen t and transfer1 and invites the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network to implement the recommendations therein when undertaking the jo
for implementing their respective mandates and providing support to developing countries in impl ementing mitigation and adaptation action ; 3 7. invites parties , the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network to explore ways of providing enhanced technical and lo
he annual technical progr ess report of the paris committee on capacity - building for 20221 and takes note of the recommendations therein ; 2 2. invites parties , as appropriate , the operating entities of the financial mechanism , the constituted bodies under the paris agreement , united nations 
the launch of the paris committee on capacity -building toolkit to assess capacity -building gaps and needs to implement the paris agreement6 and invites parties and relevant institutions to consider using the toolkit to support their capacity gaps and needs assessment efforts ; 9. welcomes the con
ans ; 7 11. notes that capacity gaps and needs still exist in developing countries pertaining to the implementat ion of the paris agreement ; 12. invites parties and relevant institutions , as appropriate , to provide support and resources to the paris committee on capacity -building for implementi
asure s by parties ; ( b ) activities 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 and 11 respectively of the workplan of the forum and its katowice committee on impacts ; 3 4. invites parties , observer organizations and stakeholders to implement the recommendations in sections i –vi below , as applicable ; 5. requests the foru
s been carried out by the katowice committee on impacts and notes that further regional workshops on activity 3 can be decided by the forum ; 13. invites parties and observers to submit via the submission portal by april 2023 their views and guiding questions for the review of the functions , work 
ge sixth assessment report1 and the recent global and regional reports on the state of the climate from the world meteorological organization and invites the intergovernmental panel on climate change to present its forthcoming reports to the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice i
ill start immediately after the third session of the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement ; 13. invites the intergovernmental panel on climate change to present to the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agre
equacy and predictability of adaptation finance , including the value of the adaptation fund in delivering dedicated support for adaptation , and invites developed country parties to consider multi -annual ple dges ; fccc/pa/cma/2021/10/add.1 4 17. welcomes the recent pledges made by many developed
s agreement towards just transitions to net zero emissions by or around mid-century , taking into account di fferent national circumstances ; 33. invites parties to update the strategies referred to in paragraph 32 above regularly , as appropriate , in line with the best available science ; 34. req
pport to the poorest and most vulnerable in line with national circumstances and recognizing the need for support towards a just transition ; 37. invites parties to consider further actions to reduce by 2030 no n-carbon dioxide greenhouse gas emissions , including methane ; 38. emphasizes the impor
also welcomes the joint annual reports of the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network for 2020 and 20216 and invites the two bodies to strengthen their collaboration ; 60. emphasizes the importance of strengthening cooperative action on technology development an
country parties ; viii . collaboration 86. notes the urgent need to close the gaps in implementation towards the goals of the paris agreement and invites the secretary -general of the united nations to convene world leaders in 2023 to consider ambition to 2030 ; 87. recognizes the importance of int
de emissi on avoidance ; 1 “ article ” refers to an article of the paris agreement , unless otherwise specified . fccc/pa/cma/2021/10/add.1 12 4. invites submissions from parties on options for the tables and outlines for the information required pursuant to chapter iv of the annex ( reporting ) by
nce of , and the relevant reports are provided to , the technical expert review referred to in chapter vii of the annex to decision 18/cma.1 ; 8. invites submissions from parties on options for implementing the infrastructure requirements referred to in chapter vi of the annex ( recording and track
c impacts , especially on developing country parties , resul ting from activities under article 6 , paragraph 2 , as requested by the forum ; 17. invites the adaptation fund to report in its annual reports to the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement
2021/10/add.1 14 19. requests that the actions called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources ; 20. invites parties to make contributions to the trust fund for supplementary activities for operationalizing the guida nce and for supporting the workshops 
 body that will supervise the mechanism with its membership and rules of procedure as set out in the annex and names it the supervisory body ; 3. invites the nomination of members and alternate members for the supervisory body pursuant to paragraph 9 of the annex ; 4. decides that at least two meet
this decision ; 16. requests that the actions called for in this decision be underta ken subject to the availability of financial resources ; 17. invites parties to make contributions to the trust fund for supplementary activities for the purpose of operationalizing the mechanism , which shall be r
ty organizations to actively engage in the research , development and implementation of non - market approaches ; fccc/pa/cma/2021/10/add.1 42 6. invites parties and observers to submit via the submission portal1 by 28 february 2022 views and information on : ( a ) existing relevant non -market app
t his decision ; 12. requests that the actions called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources ; 13. invites parties to make contributions to the trust fund for supplementary activities for implementing the work programme . 1 https : //www4.unfccc.int/si
 of the reporting tools at its fifty - seventh session ( november 2022 ) and at each subsequent session until the tools have been finalized ; 10. invites parties to submit their views on the ir experience with the test version of the reporting tools , including experience with integrating the tools
secretariat to facilitate interoperability between the reporting tools and the intergovernmental panel on climate change inventory software ; 20. invites the intergovernmental panel on climate change to engage in the work referred to in paragraph 19 above ; 21. also invites the intergovernmental pa
inventory software ; 20. invites the intergovernmental panel on climate change to engage in the work referred to in paragraph 19 above ; 21. also invites the intergovernmental panel on climate change to organize a technical training workshop in the second half of 2024 on its inventory software and 
tion by the conference of the parties serving as th e meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at its fourth session ( november 2022 ) ; 39. invites parties to submit their views on the matters identified in paragraph 38 above via the submission portal2 by 30 april 2022 ; 40. also invites the 
 39. invites parties to submit their views on the matters identified in paragraph 38 above via the submission portal2 by 30 april 2022 ; 40. also invites the committee to facilit ate implementation and promote compliance referred to in article 15 , paragraph 2 , of the paris agreement to liaise wit
 when identifying cases of significant and persistent inconsistencies referred to in decision 20/cma.1 , annex , paragraph 22 ( b ) ; 41. further invites developed country parties , and other parties on a voluntary basis , to provide financial resources to enable the secretariat to provide timely a
ject proposals in order to receive financial support from the global environment facility for preparing their biennial transparency reports ; 47. invites the consultative group of experts to take into account paragraph 1 above in its efforts to support implementation of the enhanced transparency fr
gramme will be carried out jointly by the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice and the subsidiary body for implementation ; 5. invites the subsidiary bodies to carry out the work programme with contributions from the current and incoming presidencies of the conference of the part
rsessional workshops and two workshops in conjunction with the sessions of the subsidiary bodies , starting at the ir fifty -sixth sessions ; 13. invites parties to submit via the submission portal,5 by 30 april 2022 , views on how to achieve the objectives referred to in paragraph 7 above under th
ubmission portal,5 by 30 april 2022 , views on how to achieve the objectives referred to in paragraph 7 above under the work programme ; 14. also invites the chairs of the subsidiary bodies to select themes for the workshops referred to in paragraph 12 above on the basis of the submissions referred
bsidiary bodies coinciding with the sessions of the conference of the parties ser ving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement ; 17. invites the subsidiary bodies to report annually to the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement , taking i
ommendations for all workstream activities in its workplans ; 3. welcomes the flexible workplan of the adaptation committee for 2022 –2024 ; 2 4. invites the adaptation committee to improve its efforts to measure the outreach of its events and publications by including , in its flexible workplan , 
d the summary reports on the high- level ministerial dialogues referred to in paragraph 11 above , including the guidance contained therein ; 13. invites the presiden t of the conference of the parties to ensure the coherence and complementarity of the high-level ministerial dialogues ; 14. request
t will also be considered as the deliberations evolve and taking into c onsideration the submissions referred to in paragrap hs 17–18 below ; 17. invites parties , constituted bodies under the convention and the paris agreement , the operating entities of the financial mechanism , climate finance i
ch , inter alia , welcome s the reports of the standing committee on finance and endorsed the findings and recommendations contained therein ; 2. invites parties , the operating entities of the financial mechanism , international financial institutions and other stakeholders in the financial sector
erable to the adverse effects of climate change are eligible for funding from the adaptation fund , recall s decision 1/cmp.3 , paragraph 4 , and invites the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol to request the adaptation fund board to amend the relev
firms that parties to the paris agreement are eligible for membership on the adaptation fund board , recalls decision 1/cmp.3 , paragraph 4 , and invites the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol to request the adaptation fund board to amend the relev
on workshop on information to be provided by parties in accordance with article 9 , paragraph 5 , of the paris agreement held on 11 june 2021 and invites parties and relevant institutions to consider the key findings and messages contained therein ; 9. recalls that the next biennial in-session work
rties to submit their second biennial communications in 2022 , in accordance with decision 12/cma.1 , paragraph 4 , before 31 december 2022 ; 13. invites developed country parties to take into account the areas for improvement identified in the summary report referred to in paragraph 8 above in pre
logy framework ; 2. welcomes the continuing collaboration of the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network and invites them to strengthen their collaboration and the provision of feedback between them with a view to ensuring coherence and synergy and effective imp
ations on how to stimulate the uptake of climate technology solutions to support the implementation of nationally determined contributions ; 5 5. invites parties and relevant stakeholders , in planning and implementing action related to nationally determined contributions , to consider and build on
rmined contributions , to consider and build on the recommendations contained in the joint publication referred to in paragraph 4 above ; 6. also invites the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network to : ( a ) continue their work on technology and nationally dete
1/10/add.3 23 stakeholders , thereby facilitating progress in successfully implementing activ ities in its rolling workplan for 2019– 2022 ; 6 8. invites parties and relevant stakeholders to consider the key messages and recommendations of the technology executive committee for 2020– 2021 on techno
nder balance is achieved with regard to the speakers at all its events in 2021 , and looks forward to its continuing efforts on this matter ; 12. invites the technology executive committee to further increase its activitie s on outreach and stakeholder engagement to disseminate its policy and publi
do , republic of korea , which will focus its work on , inter alia , collaborating with the green climate fund and research and development , and invites the climate technology centre and network to report on experience and lessons learned therefrom ; 6 available at https : //unfccc.int/ttclear/tec
development through small and medium -sized enterprises , and its efforts to enhance engagement with the private sector and network members ; 21. invites the climate technology centre and network to continue its efforts to support developing countries in preparing and updating technology needs asse
es in preparing and updating technology needs assessments and technology action plans , as well as their implementation , upon request ; 22. also invites the climate technology centre and network to continue providing support for enhancing the capacity of national designated entities in developing 
reports of the paris committee on capacity- building for 2020 and 20211 and takes note of the recommendations contained in the 2021 report ; 2 2. invites parties , as appropriate , the operating entities of the financial mechanism , the constituted bodies under the paris agreement , united nations 
overy ; 5 9. notes that capacity gaps and needs still exist in developing countries pertaining to the implementation of the paris agreement ; 10. invites parties and relevant institutions , as appropriate , to provide support and resources to the paris committee on capacity -building for implementi
mittee and its expert groups in 2020– 2021 ; ( b ) organizations that have submitted information pursuant to decision 2/cma.2 , paragraph 44 ; 6. invites organizations , bodies , networks and experts to include the following when reporting on the technical assistance provided to developing countrie
ng i nto account the elements identified as effective in supporting implementation as well as gaps , needs and opportunities for improvement ; 5. invites parties and relevant non -party stakeholders to engage in and support implementation of the glasgow work programm e while maintaining a country -
-party stakeholders to engage in and support implementation of the glasgow work programm e while maintaining a country -driven approach ; 6. also invites multilateral and bilateral institutions and organizations , including the operating entities of the financial mechanism , as appropriate , to pro
nfcc c process for consideration by the subsidiary body for implementation at its sixty- fourth and seventy- fourth sessions , respectively ; 13. invites parties and observers to submit their views on matters to be addressed at the in-session workshop referred to in pa ragraph 11 ( f ) above via th
tivity 1 of the workplan contained in annex i , forwarded by the forum in the 2020 –2021 annual report of the katowice committee on impacts , and invites parties to implement them , as applicable ; 6. adopts the revised rules of procedure of the katowice committee on impacts contained in annex ii ;
 carried out by the katowice committee on impacts and notes that further regional workshops on acti vity 3 could be decided on by the forum ; 11. invites parties and observers to submit via the submission portal5 by april 2022 their views on the elements of the midterm review of the workplan of the
ommittee ) as contai ned in the annex,2 in accordance with paragraphs 17 –18 of the annex to decision 20/cma.1 , for its effective operation ; 2. invites the committee to continue and accelerate its work with urgency on its remaining rules of procedure in accordance with paragraphs 17–18 of the ann
rst session , consider that the adaptation fund may serve the paris agreement , in accordance wi th paragraphs 60 and 61 of decision 1/cp.21 ; 9. invites the conference of the parties , at its twenty -second session ( november 2016 ) , to request the ad hoc working group on the paris agreement to u
e fund , and report back to the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol at its twelfth session ; 9. invites the executive board , as part of the implementation of paragraph 8 above , to consider hosting an in -session workshop at the forty -fourth sessi
ons to address : ( a ) concerns raised by stakeholders ; ( b ) validation by an accredited independent ent ity of post -registration changes ; 6. invites parties and admitted observer organizations to submit , by 31 march 2016 , their views on experiences and lessons learned from joint implementati
n , will explore potential ways for enhancing capacity -building by sharing information and varied experiences related to the kyoto protocol ; 3. invites parties to submit via the submissions portal ,1 by 9 march 2016 , as part of their annual s ubmissions pursuant to decision 6/cmp.2 , suggestions
izing the resolution of outstanding issues related to transparency and accuracy , noting that the crf reporter is not yet fully fu nctioning ; 4. invites parties included in annex i that have not yet submitted their 2015 greenhouse gas inventories and supplementary information required under articl
ns for 2016 and 2017 contained in annex i , covering 28.8 per cent of the indicative contributions specified in table 1 of decision 22/cp.21 ; 3. invites all parties to the kyoto protocol to note that contributions to the core budget are due on 1 january of each year in accordance with paragraph 8 
rst session , consider that the adaptation fund may serve the paris agreement , in accordance wi th paragraphs 60 and 61 of decision 1/cp.21 ; 9. invites the conference of the parties , at its twenty -second session ( november 2016 ) , to request the ad hoc working group on the paris agreement to u
e fund , and report back to the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol at its twelfth session ; 9. invites the executive board , as part of the implementation of paragraph 8 above , to consider hosting an in -session workshop at the forty -fourth sessi
ons to address : ( a ) concerns raised by stakeholders ; ( b ) validation by an accredited independent ent ity of post -registration changes ; 6. invites parties and admitted observer organizations to submit , by 31 march 2016 , their views on experiences and lessons learned from joint implementati
n , will explore potential ways for enhancing capacity -building by sharing information and varied experiences related to the kyoto protocol ; 3. invites parties to submit via the submissions portal ,1 by 9 march 2016 , as part of their annual s ubmissions pursuant to decision 6/cmp.2 , suggestions
izing the resolution of outstanding issues related to transparency and accuracy , noting that the crf reporter is not yet fully fu nctioning ; 4. invites parties included in annex i that have not yet submitted their 2015 greenhouse gas inventories and supplementary information required under articl
ns for 2016 and 2017 contained in annex i , covering 28.8 per cent of the indicative contributions specified in table 1 of decision 22/cp.21 ; 3. invites all parties to the kyoto protocol to note that contributions to the core budget are due on 1 january of each year in accordance with paragraph 8 
n on the financial status of the adaptation fund wit h a view to the third review of the adaptation fund being finalized at the same session ; 3. invites parties and observer organizations , as well as other interested international organizations , stakeholders and non -governmental organizations i
aptation -fund.org/document/independent -evaluation -of-the-adaptation - fund-first-phase -evaluation -report/ > . fccc/kp/cmp/2016/8/add.1 7 14. invites the conference of the parties to bring the infor mation referred to i n paragraph 13 above to the attention of the ad hoc working group on the pa
 the executive board to continue its activities in response to decision 6/cmp.11 , paragraph 14 ; iii . regional and subregional distribution 10. invites the executive board to further work on the development of simplified clean development mechanism methodolog ies and standardized baselines , whil
merging areas should also be taken into consideration in the further implementation of capacity -building activities in developing countries ; 2. invites parties to continue to implement the framework for capacity -building in developing countries under the kyoto protocol by : ( a ) enhancing consu
h south –south cooperation ; ( d ) strengthening the capacity of designated national authorities through regional collaboration centers ; 3. also invites parties to consider how to enhance existing reporting on the impacts of capac ity-building activities , good practices and lessons learned and on
 lessons learned and on how they are fed back into relevant processes to enhance the implementation of capacity -building activities ; 4. further invites all parties to cooperate to enhance the capacity of developing country parties to implement the kyoto protocol , and developed country parties to
implement the kyoto protocol , and developed country parties to enhance support for capacity -building actions in developing country parties ; 5. invites relevant intergovernmenta l and non -governmental organizations , as well as the private sector , academia and other stakeholders , to continue i
mpleting that review at the seventeenth session of the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol ; 7. invites parties , observers and other stakeholders to submit , by 9 march 2017 , the ir views on the fourth review of the implementation of the framework
thirteenth session of the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol ( november 2017 ) ; 1 , 2 8. also invites parties and observers to submit , by 9 march 2017 , suggestions for potential topic s related to the kyoto protocol for the 6th meeting of the du
 guide the implementation of , capacity -building activities in countries wit h economies in transition that are currently receiving support ; 3. invites parties included in annex ii to the convention and other parties in a position to do so , the global environment facility , multilateral and bila
 for 2018 and 2019 contained in the annex , covering 15.0 per cent of the indicative contributions specified in table 1 of decision 21/cp.23 ; 3. invites all parties to the kyoto protocol to note that contributions to the core budget are due on 1 january of each year in accordance with paragraph 8 
 of contributions covers 10.0 per cent of the indicative contributions specified in table 1 of the decision referred to in paragraph 1 above ; 4. invites all parties to the kyoto protocol to note that each party shal l , prior to 1 j anuary of each year , inform the secretariat of the contribution 
20. also decides to authorize the transfer of usd 20 million from the trust fund for the clean development mechanism to the adaptation fund ; 21. invites the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the partie s to the paris agreement to allocate the equivalent amount referred to in para
ccordance with decision 1/cmp.8 , paragraph 21 , with a view to the fourth review of the adaptation fund being finalized at the same session ; 3. invites parties to the kyoto protocol , parties to the paris agreement and observer organizations , as well as other interested international organizatio
eration and adoption by the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol at its seventeenth session ; 7. invites the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement to consider the outcomes of the review at its fourth s
es ; 6. notes that , while progress has been made , gaps and needs remain in addressing the priority areas as contained in decision 29/cmp.1 ; 7. invites parties to foster networking and enhance their collaboration with academia and research centres with a view to promoting individual , institution
dentify and disseminate lessons learned to enhance the implementation of capacity -building activities , including through the durban forum ; 12. invites parties to cooperate in order to enhance the capacity of developing countries to implement the kyoto protocol and also invites parties , as appro
durban forum ; 12. invites parties to cooperate in order to enhance the capacity of developing countries to implement the kyoto protocol and also invites parties , as appropriate , and other stakeholders to continue to provide support for capacity -building actions in developing countries ; fccc/kp
al ways for enhancing capacity -building in countries with economies in transition by sharing examples of best practices and lessons learned ; 4. invites parties to enhance reporting on best practices related to capacity -building in their national communications , biennial reports , submissions an
with a view to furthering learning and broadening the impact of capacity -building activities in countries with economies in transition ; 5. also invites parties included in annex ii to the convention and other parties in a position to do so , the global environment facility , multilateral and bila
continue to provide support for capacity -building activities in countries with economies in transition ; fccc/kp/cmp/2021/ 8/add.1 17 6. further invites parties and relevant institutions to provide information on capacity - building activities in countries with economies in transition to the secre
icative scale of contributions covers 11 per cent of the contributions specified in table 1 of the decision referred to in paragraph 1 above ; 4. invites all parties to the kyoto protocol to note that each party shall , prior to 1 january of each year , inform the secretariat of the contribution it
he details of the receiving account shall be communicated to the mechanism registry to enable their re - creation in the mechanism registry ; 10. invites the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement to request the supervisory body to cooperate with the 
n fund , as needed ; 16. further requests the board to increase the gender -responsiveness of the resources provided by the adaptation fund ; 17. invites the board to consider ways to strengthen the engagement of the adaptation fund with the private sector in order to increase private sector partic
n fund policy and guidance documents and readiness activities are available or conducted in multiple official languages of the united nations and invites the adaptation fund board to continue to strengthen its provision of support and country engagement at the regional level ; 19. requests the subs
e depositary of the agreement and to have it open for signature in new york , united states of america , from 22 april 2016 to 21 april 2017 ; 3. invites the secretary -general to convene a high -level signature ceremony for the agreement on 22 a pril 2016 ; 4. also invites all parties to the conve
16 to 21 april 2017 ; 3. invites the secretary -general to convene a high -level signature ceremony for the agreement on 22 a pril 2016 ; 4. also invites all parties to the convention to sign the agreement at the ceremony to be convened by the secretary -general , or at their earliest opportunity ,
f the agreement and to inform the preparation of nationally determined contributions pursuant to article 4 , paragraph 8 , of the agreement ; 21. invites the intergovernmental panel on climate change to provide a special report in 2018 on the impacts of global warming of 1.5 °c above pre -industria
 pre -industrial levels and related global greenhouse gas emission pathways ; iii . decisions to give effect to the agreement mitigation 22. also invites parties to communicate their first nationally determined contribution no later than when the party submits its respective instrument of ratificat
the agreement and the exchange of information , experiences , and best practices amongst parties to raise their resilience to these impacts ; 35. invites parties to communicate , by 2020 , to the secretariat mid -century , long -term low greenhouse gas emission development strategies in accordance 
 methodologies for assessing adaptation needs with a view to assisting developing country parties , without placing an undue burden on them ; 43. invites all relevant united nations agencies and international , regional and national financial institutions to provide information to parties through t
eeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol and the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the par is agreement ; 60. invites the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol to consider the issue referred to in paragraph 59 above
recommending a draft decision on this matter for considerat ion and adoption by the conference of the parties at its twenty -second session ; 77. invites parties to submit their views on the membership of the paris committee on capacity -building by 9 march 2016 ; 2 78. requests the secretariat to 
d in article 6 of the convention and in article 12 of the agreement , are adequately considered in their contribution to capacity -building ; 83. invites the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement , at its first session , to explore ways of enhancing 
 the parties should appoint one champion who should serve for two years and succeed the previously appointed champion whose term has ended ; 123. invites all interested parties and relevant organizations to provide support for the work of the champions referred to in paragraph 121 above ; 124. deci
 referred to in paragraph 113 above , an assessment of the process referred to in paragraph 124 above , so as to improve its effectiveness ; 132. invites parties and observer organizations to submit information on the opportunities referred to in paragraph 125 above by 3 february 2016 ; v. non-part
climate change , including those of civil society , the private sector , financial institutions , cities and other subnational authorities ; 134. invites the non-party stakeholders referred to in paragraph 133 above to scale up their efforts and support actions to reduce emissions and/or to build r
1 above ; 3. notes with appreciation the progress made by the adaptation committee in the implementation of its first three -year workplan ; 2 4. invites the intergovernmental panel on climate change to enhance outreach activities that would facilitate policymakers ’ understanding of the impact of 
ider how it can help parties align their technology needs assessments with th e process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans ; 6. invites parties to take into account climate risk screening of national development strategies and policies aimed at enhancing livelihoods and economic d
activities , in particular development planning processes and strategies within relevant sectors and at different levels of decision -making ; 6. invites the green climate fund , as an operating entity of the financial mechanism , in accordance with paragraphs 36 and 40 of its governing instrument,
nstrument,5 to consider how to improve access to financial support for the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans ; 7. also invites developed country parties to contribute to the l east developed countries fund and the special climate change fund ; 8. encourages united nations
 relevant organizations to continue their efforts to coordinate support for the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans ; 9. invites united nations organizations , specialized , bilateral and multilateral agencies and other relevant organizations to consider the gaps and needs 
ideration by the conference of the parties at its twenty -second session ; 11. also requests the members of the standing committee on finance and invites parties and observer organizations to submit their views on the terms of reference for the review of 1 fccc/cp/2015/8 . 2 as contained in documen
e procedures parties and affected individuals should follow when seeking redress until the independent redress mechanism is operationalized ; 21. invites the board of the green climate fund to take into account in its programmati c priorities the cancun adaptation framework , in particular the prin
ular the principles referred to in decision 1/cp.16 , paragraph 12 , and the activities referred to in decision 1/cp.16 , paragraph 14 ; 22. also invites the board of the green climate fund , in line with paragraph 38 of the governing instrument of the green climate fund,6 to consider ways to provi
on the steps it has taken to implement the guidance provided in this decision and other relevant decisions of the conference of the parties ; 29. invites parties to submit to the secretariat annually , in writing and no later than 10 weeks prior to each session of th e conference of the parties , t
n and forest degradation in line with the programming direct ions of the sixth replenishment of the global environment facility trust fund ; 3 3. invites the global environment facility to continue to provide finance to the activities referred to in paragraph 2 above , also taking into account deci
es to further articulate and build on the complementarity of their policies and programmes within the financial mechanism of the convention ; 15. invites parties to submit to the secretariat annually , in writing and no later than 10 weeks prior to e ach session of the conference of the parties , t
 by parties included in annex i to the convention in the context of its workplan on the measurement , reporting and verification of support ; 15. invites the subsidiary body for implementation to take into consideration the adjustments referred to i n paragraph 6 above in its revision of the “ guid
entre and ne twork for 2015,1 which contains information on their respective activities and on the performance of their respective functions ; 2. invites the technology executive committee and the advisory board of the climate technology centre and network to update the procedures2 for preparing th
ard of the climate technology centre and network to update the procedures2 for preparing the joint chapter of their joint annual report ; 3. also invites parties and all relevant entities working on techno logy development and transfer to consider the key messages contained in the report referred t
ph 4 above , and make it available in early 2016 to developing countr y parties for use in informing the technology needs assessment process ; 6. invites the climate technology centre and network to use the guidance referred to in paragraph 5 above when re sponding to requests from developing count
 facility to the activities of the climate technology centre and network and looks forward to ongoing cooperation between these two entities ; 4. invites the board of the green climate fund to provide its recommendations , in accordance with decision 1/cp.18 , paragraph 62 , for consideration by th
e conference of the parties at its twenty -second s ession , taking into consideration the recommendations referred to in paragraph 4 above ; 10. invites the board of the green climate fund , in line with paragraph 38 of the governing instrument of the green climate fund ,2 to consider ways to prov
cretariat to prepare a technical paper based on the terms of reference referred to in paragraph 1 above as input to the comprehensive review ; 4. invites parties and observer organizations to submit their views on the comprehensive review by 9 march 20161 for compilation by the secretariat into a m
 participation of parties , representatives of the relevant bodies established under the convention , and relevant experts and practitioners ; 8. invites representatives of the relevant bodies established under the convention , operating entiti es of the financial mechanism of the convention , inte
: //www.unfccc.int/5900 > . observer organizations should e -mail their submissions to < secretariat @ unfccc.int > . fccc/cp/2015/10/add.3 3 10. invites united nations agencies and multilateral organizations to provide information to the secretariat for the capacity -building portal ; 2 11. also i
s united nations agencies and multilateral organizations to provide information to the secretariat for the capacity -building portal ; 2 11. also invites parties to submit via the submissions portal3 by 9 march 2016 , as part of their annual submissions pursuant to decision 4/cp.12 , suggestions on
 the progress made in providing financial support and implementing activities to contribute to the implementation of the doha work programme ; 4. invites multilateral and bilateral institutions and organizations , the private sector and donors to report on financial resources provided to support th
oaches , fccc/cp/2015/10/add.3 12 such as joint mitigation and adaptat ion approaches for the integral and sustainable management of forests ; 7. invites parties that want to implement alternative policy approaches , such as joint mitigation and adaptation approaches for the integral and sustainabl
encourages developing country parties to share the information referred to in paragraph 2 above via the web platform on the unfccc website ; 1 4. invites interested developing country parties to communicate the information referred to in paragraph 2 above for consideration by interested parties and
 from the paris agreement and the decisions adopted by the conference of the parties at its twenty -first session , as determined by parties ; 3. invites the least developed countries expert group to consider the need to update the least developed countries work programme and to make recommendation
s to nominate one focal point each for the least developed countries expert group with a view to enhancing collaboration with those centres ; 11. invites the least developed countries expert group to invite representatives of global programmes , projects and/or networks that support the process to 
cale of contributions for 2016 and 2017 contained in the annex , covering 71.2 per cent of the indicative contributions specified in table 1 ; 6. invites the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol , at its eleventh session , to endorse the elements of 
o the kyoto protocol , at its eleventh session , to endorse the elements of the recommend ed budget as it applies to the kyoto protocol ; 7. also invites the united nations general assembly to decide at its seventieth session on the issue of meeting the conference services expenses from the united 
gulations and rules of the united nations ,4 which would require the surrender of the accumulated surplus referred to in paragraph 12 above ; 14. invites all parties to the convention to note that contributions to the core budget are due on 1 january of each year , in accordance with paragraph 8 ( 
 note of the funding estimates for the trust fund for participation in the unfccc process specified by the executive sec retary ( table 4 ) ; 18. invites parties to make contributions to the trust fund for participation in the unfccc process ; 19. takes note of the funding estimates for the trust f
e trust fund for supplementary activities specified by the executive secretary ( eur 51,647 , 777 for the biennium 2016 –2017 ) ( table 5 ) ; 20. invites parties to make contributions to the trust fund for supplementary activities ; 21. requests the executive secretary to report to the conference o
ession of the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol would come from the asia -pacific states ; 4. invites parties to undertake further consultations on the hosting of those sessions , which will be held from monday , 6 november , to friday , 17 novemb
ion of the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol would come from the eastern european states ; 7. invites parties to undertake further consult ations on the hosting of those sessions , which will be held from monday , 5 november , to friday , 16 novem
s agreement by almost all parties to the convention ; 3. congratulates parties that have ratif ied , accepted or approved the paris agreement and invites those that have not done so to deposit their instruments of ratification , acceptance , approval or accession , where appropriate , with the depo
the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement ; 1 decision 1/cma.1 , paragraphs 5 –7 , reads : “ 5 . invites the conference of the parties to continue to oversee the implementation of the work programme under the paris agreement in accordance with the ar
n conjunction with the twenty -fourth session of the conference of the parties ( december 2018 ) for its considerati on and adoption ; “ 6 . also invites the conference of the parties to continue to oversee the work on further guidance in relation to the adaptation communication , including , inter
as a component of nationally determined contributions , referred to in a rticle 7 , paragraphs 10 and 11 , of the paris agreement ; “ 7 . further invites the conference of the parties to continue to oversee the work on the development of modalities and procedures for the operation and use of a publ
ss the governance and institutional arrangements , safeguards and operating modalities for the adaptation fund to serve the paris agreement ; 15. invites parties to submit , by 31 march 2017 , their views on the governance and institutional arrangements , safeguards and operating modalities for the
decision 2/cp.19 ; 1 fccc/sb/2016/3 . 2 fccc/sb/2014/4 , annex ii . 3 contained in document fccc/sb/2016/3 , annex i. fccc/cp/2016/ 10/add.1 9 5. invites parties and relevant organizations to submit views and relevant input s on possible activities under each strategic workstream as contained in th
that the executive committee will evaluate progress towards implementing its five-year rolling workplan on an interim basis , as appropriate ; 8. invites constituted bodies under the convention , as appropriate , as those bodies undertake their work , to continue or to initiate , as appropriate , t
anagement into relevant planning and action , as appropriate , and to encourage bilateral and multilateral entities to support such efforts ; 10. invites united nations and other relevan t institutions , specialized agencies and entities , the research community and the private sector , as appropri
cing the implementation of approaches to address loss and damage associated with the adverse impacts of climate change at the national level ; 5. invites the paris committee on capac ity-building , within the scope of its workplan , to consider a future theme on addressing loss and damage ; 6. requ
e twenty -seventh session of the conference of the parties , with a view to adopting an ap propriate decision on the outcome of that review ; 12. invites parties to submit via the submission portal,6 no later than three months prior to the twenty -seventh session of the conference of the parties , 
orm ance of the adaptation committee and on the review process referred to in paragraph 11 above with a view to informing that process ; 13. also invites relevant institutional arrangements under the convention and non -party stakeholders to further strengthen finan cial and technical support and c
ubsequent implementation of policies , projects and programmes of developing country parties as requested in decision 1/cp.21 , paragraph 46 ; 6. invites devel oping country parties to access the funding referred to in paragraph 4 above in order to advance the formulation of their national adaptati
tries fund ; 10. encourages developed country parties to contribute to the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund and invites additional voluntary financial contributions to the least developed countries fund , the special climate change fund and other funds under the fi
s to formulate and implement national adaptation plans are supported either by bilateral and multilateral agencies or by domestic resources ; 12. invites parties to continue to provide information on progress made towards the achievement of the objectives of the process to formulate and implement n
nificantly scale up adaptation finance , while stressing the need to strive for a greater balance between adaptation and mitigation finance , and invites parties and rele vant institutions to consider the key messages from the in -session workshop referred to in paragraph 6 above , including that :
 in paragraph 12 below ; 11. welcomes the submission of the first biennial update rep orts submitted by 34 developing country parties to date and invites developing country parties that have not already done so to submit their biennial update reports as soon as possible , recalling decision 2/cp.17
s note of the summary report on the 2016 forum , including the recommendations and follow -up activities of the standing committee on finance and invites the standing committee on finance to follow up on the recommendations in its 2017 workplan ; 4 8. expresses its gratitude to the government of th
philippines and the asian development bank for th eir support in ensuring the success of the 2016 forum of the standing committee on finance ; 9. invites the standing committee on finance to continue its deliberations on the topic of its 2017 forum at its first meeting in 2017 ; 10. reiterates that
, tn = trillion , unep fi = united nations e nvironment programme finance initiative , $ = united states dollars . d. recommendations 37. the scf invites the cop to consider the following recommendations : ( a ) invite parties , the ad hoc working group on the paris agreement , the subsidiary body 
rt of the standing committee on finance to the twenty -second session of the conference of the parties and in particular annex vii thereto ; 1 3. invites members of the standing committee on finance , parties , the constituted bodies under the convention and external stakeholders to submit , by 9 m
ties to engage with the private sector , including local actors , on adaptation action at the national , regional and inter national levels ; 12. invites national designated authorities and focal points to utilize the readiness and preparatory support programme , and to collaborate with accredited 
 13. reiterates its request4 to the board to agree on the arrangements for the first formal replenishment process of the green climate fund ; 14. invites parties to submit via the submission po rtal5 annually , no later than 10 weeks prior to each session of the conference of the parties , their vi
ironment facility trust fund in order to continue to increase the effectiveness of its operations ; 2. calls upon developed country parties , and invites other parties that make voluntary financial contributions to the globa l environment facility , to ensure a robust seventh replenishment , in ord
ot and encourages further expansion of the pilot with a view to increasing the leverage and impact of global environment facility financing ; 20. invites parties to submit via the submission portal9 annually , no later than 10 weeks prior to each session of the conference of the parties , their vie
 review of the financial mechanism , with a view to the review being finalized by the conference of the parties at its twenty -third session ; 3. invites parties , observers and other interested international organizations , stakeholders and non -governmental organiz ations involved in the activiti
dertaking collaborative research and development for enabling developing country parties to enhance their mitigation and adaptation action ; 2 6. invites green climate fund national designated authorities and focal points to use the support available to them under the readiness and preparatory supp
readiness and preparatory support programme to , inter alia , conduct technology need s assessments and develop technology action plans ; 7. also invites developing country parties to develop and submit technology -related projects , including those resulting from technology needs assessments and f
t of relevant stakeholders as they undertake actions to strengthen the linkages between the technology mechanism and the financial mechanism ; 9. invites the technology executive committee , the climate technology centre and network and the operating entities of the financial mechanism to provide i
rt on the outcome of this work in their joi nt annual report to the conference of the parties at its twenty -third session ( november 2017 ) ; 6. invites the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network to include information in the respective chapters of their futur
merging and cross -cutting issues ; innovation and research , development and demonstration ; mitigation ; and technolo gy needs assessments ; 8. invites parties and all relevant stakeholders working on technology development and transfer to consider the key messages of the technology executive com
between national designated authorities for the green climate fund and national designated entities for technology development and transfer ; 17. invites the climat e technology centre and network to include the outcomes of the engagement referred to in paragraphs 15 and 16 above in its annual repo
hance capacity -building efforts , including with regard to coherence and coordination in capacity -building activities under the convention ; 3. invites parties to consider how to enhance existing reporti ng on the impacts of capacity -building activities , good practices and lessons learned and o
back into relevant processes to enhance the implementation of capacity -building activities ; 1 fccc/tp/2016/1 . fccc/cp/2016/ 10/add.2 8 4. also invites the paris committee on capacity -building , in managing the 2016 –2020 workplan : ( a ) to take into consideration cross -cutting issues such as 
under the convention and the paris agreement as well as existing reporting mandates , in order to achieve coherence and coordination ; 5. further invites parties to foster networking and enhance their collaboration with academia and research centres , with a view to promoting individual , instituti
res , with a view to promoting individual , institutional and systemic capacity -building through educati on , training and public awareness ; 6. invites the subsidiary body for implementation to facilitate complementarity between the durban forum and the paris committee on capacity -building ; 7. 
subsidiary body for implementation to facilitate complementarity between the durban forum and the paris committee on capacity -building ; 7. also invites parties to cooperate in order to enhance the capacity of developing country parties to implement the convention and the paris agreement , and fur
ies to cooperate in order to enhance the capacity of developing country parties to implement the convention and the paris agreement , and further invites developed country parties to enhance support for capacity -building actions in developing country parties ; 8. further i nvites relevant intergov
s , to continue incorporating into their work programmes the scope of needs referred to in paragraph 1 above as contained in decision 2/cp.7 ; 9. invites united nations agencies , multilateral organizations and relevant admitted observer organizations engaged in providing capacity -building support
 -building support to developing countries to provide information to the secretariat to be uploaded on the capacity -building portal ; 2 10. also invites parties to submit , by 9 march 2017 , their views on potential topics for the 6th meeting of the durban forum ; 3 11. further invites parties to 
 2 10. also invites parties to submit , by 9 march 2017 , their views on potential topics for the 6th meeting of the durban forum ; 3 11. further invites parties to submit , by 9 march 2017 , their views on the fourth review of the implementation of the framework for cap acity -building in countrie
ate sector , state and local governme nts and youth to continue to implement policies and activities pursuant to article 6 of the convention ; 5. invites parties to enhance cross -sectoral coordination among all ministries dealing with climate change and ministries with responsibilities for educati
ies of subsequent session s to hold similar thematic events related to article 6 of the convention to that referred to in paragraph 8 above ; 10. invites multilateral and bilateral institutions and organizations , including operating entities of the financial mechanism , to provide , or to continue
 countries and small island developing states , in order to support activities related to the implementation of article 6 of the convention ; 12. invites relevant international organizations , including united nations organizations , such as the members of the united nations alliance on climate cha
wards the full implementation of the implementation plan and to consider what actions they can take to contribute towards its implementation ; 7. invites united nations agencies and interna tional organizations to support the full implementation of the implementation plan , as appropriate ; 8. emph
30 below and to undertake , at the twenty -fifth session of the conference of the parties ( november 2019 ) , a review of the work programme ; 7. invites parties to continue to assist : ( a ) training and awareness -raising for female and male delegates o n issues related to gender balance and clim
in unfccc meetings through training on , inter alia , negotiation skills , the drafting of legal documents and strateg ic communication ; 8. also invites parties and relevant organizations to continue to assist the activities referred to in paragraph 7 above , with a special focus on training and c
and capacity -building efforts referred to in paragraphs 7 and 8 above , inter alia , in conjunction with sessions of the subsidiary bodies ; 10. invites parties to increase the representation and active participation of women in the bodies established under the convention ; 11. decides that annual
e organization of the technical expert meetings on mitigation and adaptation , in accordance with decision 1/cp.21 , paragraphs 111 and 129 ; 17. invites parties to mainstream a gender perspective in the enhancement of climate techn ology development and transfer ; 18. requests the secretariat , if
ctive annual reports t o the conference of the parties information on the integration of gender considerations in all aspects of their work ; 22. invites parties to appoint and provide support for a national gender focal point for climate negotiations , implementation and monitoring ; 23. encourage
to maintain and regularly update its web pages7 for sharing information on women ’ s participation and on gender -responsive climate policy ; 26. invites parties and non -party stakeholders to share information on their work related to integrating a gender perspective in the activities and work und
ponsible and key actors and indicative resource requirements for each activity , and further elaborate its process of review and monitoring ; 28. invites parties , members of constituted bodies , united nations organizations , observers and other stakeholders to consult through meetings , prior to 
10/add.2 20 paragraph 27 above fo r consideration by the subsidiary body for implementation at its forty -seventh session ( november 2017 ) ; 30. invites submissions from parties , observers and other stakeholders , by 25 january 2017 , on their views on the matters to be addressed at the in -sessi
. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources ; 33. invites parties and relevant organizations to participate and engage in implementing gender -related activities within the work programme . 9th plenary m
 the president to be elected at the sessions to be held from 11 to 22 november 2019 would come from the latin american and caribbean states ; 13. invites parties to undertake further consultations on the hosting of the sess ions referred to in paragraph 12 above ; 14. requests the subsidiary body f
 on climate change special report on global warming of 1.5 °c in response to the invitation from parties in decision 1/cp.21 , paragraph 21 ; 27. invites parties to make use of the information contain ed in the report referred to in paragraph 25 above in their discussions under all relevant agenda 
hanced ambition ; 36. recognizes the efforts and actions that parties and non -party stakeholders are undertaking to enhance climate action ; 37. invites parties to consider the outcome , inputs and outputs of the talanoa dialogue in preparing their nationally determined contributions and in their 
 , the facilitative working group shall elect a replacement to complete that term of office , in accordan ce with paragraphs 9 and 10 above ; 13. invites parties to promote the engagement of local communities in the local communities and indigenous peoples platform with a view to enhancing their pa
nce with decisions 36/cp.7 , 23/cp.18 and 3/cp.23 ; 15. decides that the facilitative working group shall operate on the basis of consensus ; 16. invites parties , local communities and indigenous peoples to take into consideration the local communities and indigenous peoples platform and its funct
ee functions of the platform,1 at each session of the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice until the workplan is adopted , and invites parties , observers and other stakeholders to submit their views on possible activities via the submission portal2 by 28 february 2019 ; 24. requ
 requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this dec ision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources ; 33. invites interested parties and organizations to provide financial and technical support , as appropriate , for the implementation of the functions of the
rdance with decision 3/cp.19 ; 8. notes with appreciation the summary report3 on the 2018 in -session workshop on long-term climate finance , and invites parties and relevant institutions to consider the key messages the rein ; 9. decides that the in -session workshops on long -term climate finance
n the 2018 biennial assessment and overview of climate finance flows technical report . fccc/cp/2018/10/add.1 27 iv . recommendations 51. the scf invites the cop to consider the following recommendations : chapter i ( methodologies ) ( a ) request developed country parties and encourage developing 
t of funds to already approved projects as a key element of the green climate fund ’ s operations in line with agreed disbursement schedules ; 9. invites parties to submit to the secretariat via the s ubmission portal,8 no later than 10 weeks prior to the twenty -fifth session of the conference of 
ity , in line with priorities of support as contained in the programming directions of the capacity -building initiative for transparency ; 5 13. invites the global environment facility to enhance the information in its reports to the conference of the parties on the outcomes of the collaboration b
 against unwanted sexual advances , preventing inappropriate behaviour a nd abuse of power and providing guidelines for reporting incidents ; 19. invites parties to submit to the secretariat via the submission portal,7 no later than 10 weeks prior to the twenty -fifth session of the conference of t
ue coordinating support related to the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans and to continue sharing lessons learned ; 23. invites parties to continue providing information on progress towards the achievement of the objectives of the process to formulate and implement nationa
 and to ensure that such approaches ar e not mutually exclusive but rather are complementary , allowing for synergy in enhancing resilience ; 11. invites relevant institutions under the convention and non -party stakeholders to strengthen support ( financial , technical , technological and capacity
ment fccc/sb/2012/3 , annex ii . 3 see http : //tep -a.org . 4 fccc/tp/2018/3 . 5 see document fccc/tp/2016/2 . fccc/cp/2018/10/add.1 39 12. also invites parties and interested organizations to share case studies of initiatives that focus on ecosystems and adaptation planning for vulnerable communi
k programme on impacts , vulnerability and adaptation to climate change with a view to enhancing the translation of knowledge into practice ; 14. invites parties and relevant entities working on nation al adaptation goals and indicators to strengthen linkages with the monitoring systems of the sust
eciation the work undertaken by the organ izations6 comprising the task force on displacement in response to decision 1/cp.21 , paragraph 49 ; 3. invites parties , bodies under the convention and the paris agreement , united nations agencies and relevant stakeholders to consider the recommendations
 of groups vulnerable to the adverse impacts of climate change when implementing its five -year rolling workplan ; 6. also encourages parties and invites relevant organizations to make avail able sufficient resources for the successful and timely implementation of the five -year rolling workplan of
ghth sessions of the subsidiary bodies under the guidance of the executive committee and the chair of the subsidiary body for implementation ; 8. invites relevant organizations and other stakeholders to collaborate with the executive committee , including through partnerships , in developing and di
 executive committee to the secretariat in determining the scope of the technical paper referred to in decision 4/cp.22 , paragraph 2 ( f ) ; 10. invites parties : ( a ) to consider developing policies , plans and strategies , as appropriate , and to facilitate coordinated action and the monitoring
cides that the consultative group of experts , in fulfilling its mandate , shall function in accordance with decision 19/cp.19 and its annex ; 3. invites a representative of parties not included in annex i to the convention that are not represented by the consti tuencies referred to in decision 3/c
e technology centre and network has undertaken initial efforts in response to the relevant recommendations referred to in paragrap h 1 above ; 3. invites parties , national designated entities and the united nations environment programme as host of the climate technology centre , in collaboration w
ed to in paragraph 1 above when implementing their further activities relevant to the work of the climate technology centre and network ; 4. also invites the operating entities o f the financial mechanism to consider implementing the relevant recommendations referred to in paragraph 1 above when im
to in paragraph 1 above when implementing their further activities relevant to the work of the climate technology centre and network ; 5. further invites parties and the c limate technology centre and network to enhance the provision of support for strengthening the capacity of national designated 
de information on tracking of progress and on methodologies used ; i. activities and performance of the technology executive committee in 2018 8. invites parties and all relevant stakeholders working on technology development and transfer , when implementing climate technology action , to consider 
echnologies , and technology needs assessments , all of which are contained in the joint annual report referred to in paragraph 1 above ; 9. also invites the technology executive committee to continue enhancing its communication and outreach strategy with a view to expanding the reach of its output
 the fund , and notes with appreciation the support provided by the fund for readiness requests submitted by national designated authorities ; 4. invites the climate technology centre and network and the green climate fund to continue enhancing collaboration , wherein the services and expertise of 
ent facility and the green climate fund through projects and programmes , including for projects resulting from technology needs assessments ; 6. invites developing country parties to seek support from the climate technolo gy centre and network to develop and submit technology -related projects , i
 , to the operating entities of the financial mechanism for implementation , in accordance with their respective policies and processes ; 7. also invites the climate technology centre and network to consult with the green climate fund and the global environment facility to identify ways to enhance 
nual technical progress report of the paris committee on capacity - building for 2018,1 taking note of the recommendations contained therein ; 2. invites parties , the operating entities of the financial mechanism , the constituted bodies under the convention , united nations organizations , observ
mmittee on capacity -building with non - party stakeholders , including through its capacity -building hub and the use of social media tools ; 4. invites parties and relevant institutions to provide support and resources to the paris committee on capacity -building in implementing its rolling workp
ement ; 2. acknowledges the request of the government of chile to review the planned dates of the sessions referred to in paragraph 1 above , and invites the executive secretary to conduct consultations on the matter and to inform the bureau of the outcome of the consultations ; 3. invites the bure
ve , and invites the executive secretary to conduct consultations on the matter and to inform the bureau of the outcome of the consultations ; 3. invites the bureau to decide on the dates of the sessi ons ; 4. requests the executive secretary to continue consultations with the government of chile a
conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement would come from the western european and other states ; 7. invites parties to undertake further consultat ions on the hosting of the sessions referred to in paragraph 6 above ; 8. requests the subsidiary body for
eflect the best available science , and encourages parties to continue to support the work of the intergovernmental pane l on climate change ; 7. invites parties to make use of the information contained in the special reports referred to in paragraph 6 above in their discussions under all relevant 
s twenty -sixth session ( november 2020 ) , a round table among parties and non -party stakeholders on pre-2020 implementation and ambition ; 20. invites parties and non -party stakeholders to submit inputs via the submission portal4 by september 2020 to inform the round table referred to in paragr
 the kyoto protocol and the paris agreement , including those carried out under the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice ; 33. invites parties a nd non -party stakeholders to submit inputs via the submission portal by 31 march 2020 to inform the dialogue s referred to in paragrap
di es to continue to include in their regular reports information on progress towards integrating a gender perspective into their processes ; 13. invites parties to submit information on efforts and steps taken to implement the enhanced lima work programme on gend er and its gender action plan in t
nhanced lima work programme on gend er and its gender action plan in their national reporting under the unfccc process , as applicable ; 14. also invites relevant public and private entities to increase the gender -responsiveness of climate finance with a view to strengthening the capacity of women
ty and the empowerment of women to strengthen the integration of gender considerations within the organization an d work of the secretariat ; 16. invites parties to provide support for developing country parties to address gender - related action under the convention and the paris agreement , inclu
to the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans identified in undertaking their mandated work and on how to address them ; 4. invites constituted bodies and other organizations to provide informat ion to the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group on 
ing countries to advance their work in the process to formulat e and implement national adaptation plans ; 7. urges developed country parties and invites other parties that provide resources on a voluntary basis , united nations organizations , specialized agencies and other relevant organizations 
t programme for the formulation of national adaptation plans , particularly relating to the application and review of proposals for funding ; 10. invites delivery pa rtners of the green climate fund readiness and preparatory support programme for the formulation of national adaptation plans to stre
al technical progress report of the paris committee on capacity - building for 20191 and takes note of the recommendations contained therein ; 2. invites parties , as appropriate , the operating entities of the fin ancial mechanism , the constit uted bodies under the convention , united nations org
kplan and on the progress , outcomes , im pacts and effectiveness of the activities in its workplan in its annual technical progress report ; 18. invites parties and relevant institutions , as appropriate , to provide support and resources to the paris committee on capacity -building for implementi
 has been made , gaps and needs remain in addressing the priority issues identified in the capacity -building framework under the convention ; 7. invites parties to foster networking and enhance their collaboration with academia and research centres with a view to promoting individual , institution
ance the implementation of capacity -building activities , including through the durban forum and the paris committee on capacity -building ; 12. invites parties to cooperate in ord er to enhance the capacity of developing countries to implement the convention and the paris agreement , and also inv
tes parties to cooperate in ord er to enhance the capacity of developing countries to implement the convention and the paris agreement , and also invites parties , as appropriate , and other stakeholders to continue to provide support for capacity -building action s in developing countries ; 13. co
. underscores the important contribution of the standing committee on finance in relation to the operational definitions of climate finance , and invites parties to su bmit via the 1 fccc/cp/2019/10−fccc/pa/cma/2019/3 . 2 fccc/cp/2019/10−fccc/pa/cma/2019/3 , annex v. 3 fccc/cp/2019/10−fccc/pa/cma/2
xth session ( november 2020 ) ; 10. decides to continue its consideration of th e matter in paragraph 9 above at its twenty - sixth session ; 11. invites parties to submit to the secretariat their views and recommendations on elements to be taken into account in developing guidance for the board vi
 and transfer at different stages of the technology cycle and achieving a balance between support for mitigation and support for adaptation ; 21. invites the board of the green cli mate fund to continue providing financial resources for activities relevant to averting , minimizing and addressing lo
amounting to usd 3.3 million , and encourages additional voluntary financial contributions to these funds to provide support for adapt ation ; 4. invites the global environment facility to continue its efforts to minimize the time between the approval of pr oject concepts , the development and appr
hnology actions prioritized by countries in their technology needs assessments , within the scope of its mandate and operational modali ties ; 8. invites the global environment facility to consider : ( a ) exploring ways to include in the fourth phase of the global project on technology needs ass e
ed evaluation of the poznan strategic programme on technology transfer,9 within the scope of its mandate and its operational modalities ; 9. also invites the global environment facility , in accordance with its existing mandates and in collaboration with the green climate fund , to report on lesson
d subsequent biennial transparency reports in accordance with article 13 , paragraph s 14–15 , of the paris agreement and decision 18/cma.1 ; 14. invites parties to submit to the secretariat via the submission portal,11 no later than 10 weeks prior to the twenty -sixth session of the con ference of
te chnology executive committee and the advisory board of the climate technology centre and network and regio nal technical expert meetings , and invites them to enhance their collaboration and to ensure the provision of feedback b etween them ; 3. further welcomes the coherent approach of the tech
nd encourages them to use these systems to improve reporting on the outputs and impacts of their work and facilitate the achievement thereof ; 4. invites the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network to continue undertaking joint communication and outreach activit
 areas of innovation , implementation , enabling environment and capacity -building , collaboration and stakeholder engagement , and support ; 7. invites parties and relevant stakeholders , in planning and implementing action related to technology development and transfer , to consider and build on
 the participation of representatives of the technology executive committee in regional forums of the climate technology centre and network ; 11. invites the technology executive committee to continue the efforts referred to in paragraph 10 above to enhance the visibility of and seek feedback on it
e private sector , in implementi ng their activities , and requests the climate technology centre and network to enhance this collaboration ; 19. invites the climate technology centre and network to enhance engagem ent with network members , including through new and innovative approaches , and to 
 united nations environment programme regarding the hosting of the climate technology centre , as contained in annex i to decision 14/cp.18 , and invites the united nations env ironment programme , as the host of the climate technology centre , to develop and implement plans to financially support 
d to prepare a draft decision for consideration and adoption at the twenty -sixth session of the conference of the parties ( november 2020 ) ; 2. invites parties , observer organizations and other stakeho lders to submit , via the submission portal1 by 15 february 2020 , information on steps taken 
mmendations and views on future work to enhance the implementation of article 6 of the convention and article 12 of the paris agreement ; 3. also invites united n ations organizations , in particular the members of the united nations alliance on climate change education , training and public awaren
dations and views on future work to enhance the implementation of article 6 of the convention and article 12 of the paris ag reement ; 4. further invites parties and observer organizations to submit via the submission portal by 15 february 2020 , their views on the agenda for the 8th in-session dia
th s ession of the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement would come from the african states ; 6. invites parties to undertake further consultations on the hosting of the sessions referred to in paragraph 5 above ; 7. requests the subsidiary body for 
s contained in the annex ; 8. notes that the indica tive scale of contributions covers 90 per cent of the contributions specified in table 1 ; 9. invites the conferenc e of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol , at its fifteenth session , to endorse the elements o
the kyoto protocol , at its fifteenth session , to endorse the elements of the recommen ded budget as it applies to the kyoto protocol ; 10. also invites the united nations general assembly to decide , at its seventy -fourth session , on the issue of meeting the conference services expenses from it
rties that have not made contribution s in full to the core budget for the current and/or previous bienniums to do so without further delay ; 16. invites all parties to the convention to note that each party shall , prior to 1 january of each year , inform the secretariat of the contribution it int
e of the funding estimates for the trust fund for participation in the unfccc process specifie d by the executive secretary ( see table 4 ) ; 18. invites parties to make contributions to the trust fund for participation in the unfccc process ; 19. takes note of the funding estimates for the trust f
ust fund for supplementary activities specified by the executive secr etary ( eur 63 ,542,327 for the biennium 2 020–2021 ) ( see table 5 ) ; 20. invites parties to make contributions to the trust fund for supplementary activities with a view to enabling the implementation of activities envisaged u
ping countries to address climate change , 7 decision 1/cp.26 , para . 19. fccc/cp/2022/10/add.1 5 welcomes the pledges made to the two funds and invites developed countries to further contribute to the two funds ; 24. emphasizes the importance of protecting , conserving and restoring water and wat
 everyone on earth through universal coverage of early warning systems against extreme weather and cl imate change within the next five years and invites development partners , international financial institutions and the operating entities of the financial mechanism to provide support for implemen
r k,15 for 2023– 2027 , which will facilitate the transformational change needed to achieve the goals of the convention and the paris agreement , invites parties and stakeholders to cooperate and engage with the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network to support
ng by fully implementing the lima work programme on gender and its gender action plan , to raise climate ambition and achieve climate goals ; 58. invites parties to provide support to developing countries for undertaking gender - related action and implementing the gender action plan ; 59. recogniz
transparency and accountability related to , and progress in achieving , the climate pledges of businesses , investors , cities and regions ; 65. invites the secretariat to ensure greater accountability of voluntary initiatives through the non- state actor zone for climate action platform ; 22 66. 
lusions of the subsidiary bodies referred to in paragraph 2 above in implementing their actions and workplans , according to their mandates ; 12. invites parties to consider policies , actions and measures relevant to implementing the conclusions referred to in paragraph 2 above ; 13. also invites 
 invites parties to consider policies , actions and measures relevant to implementing the conclusions referred to in paragraph 2 above ; 13. also invites the current and future presidencies of the conference of the parties , high- level champions and other actors , when promoting climate initiative
s and policies for increasing opportunities for implementation of climate action to address issues related to agriculture and food security ; 17. invites parties and observers to submit by 27 march 2023 via the submission portal 8 views on the elements of the joint work referred to in paragraphs 14
ops referred to in paragraph 15 ( b ) above , for consideration by the subsidiary bodies at their fifty -eighth sessions ( june 2023 ) ; 18. also invites parties and observers to submit by 27 march 2023 via the submission portal views on the operationalization of the portal referred to in paragraph
lization of the portal referred to in paragraph 16 above for consideration by the subsidiary bodies at their fifty- eighth sessions ; 19. further invites parties , united nations organizations and other relevant institutions , agencies and entities , the research community , the private sector , ci
formulation and implementation of national adaptation plans , particularly in relation to the submission and review of proposals for funding ; 5. invites the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group , in line with their mandates , to continue formulating recommendations o
 , which could be held in conjunction with the nap expo , the adaptation forum or other events outlined in their respective work programmes ; 10. invites other unfccc constituted bodies and relevant organizations to provide information to the adaptation committee and the least developed countries e
it does not have a potential conflict of interest in the selection process , including by applying appropriate safeguards and procedures ; “ 20 . invites the executive committee to designate four of its members , the climate technology centre and network advisory board and the paris committee on ca
 ) above , to consider the proposals , ensuring that there is a balanced representation of developed and developing country parties ; “ 21 . also invites the panel to consult , as appropriate , with other constituted bodies with relevant expertise , including in particular the adaptation committee 
ommending it for consideration and approval by the governing body or bodies at their session ( s ) to be held in november –december 2023 ; “ 25 . invites parties to inform the santiago network secretariat of their liaison to the santiago network secretariat , as appropriate for their national circu
ing the committee ’ s operational definition of climate finance , as appropriate , and supporting parties in their national reporting efforts and invites parties and external stakeholders to make further submissions thereon via the submission portal5 by 30 april 2023 ; 12. notes the report prepared
a ( available at https : //unfccc.int/ba -2018 ) . no recommendations were included in the fourth ( 2020 ) ba . iii . recommendations 34. the scf invites the cop and the cma to consider the recommendations presented in chapter iii.a –c below . the three sets of recommendations relate to chapter ii.
e of the parties and the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement,2 in particular its annex ii ; 3. invites members of the standing committee on f inance , parties , unfccc constituted bodies and external stakeholders to submit via the submission portal
d the submissions referred to in paragraph 3 above , for consideration by the subsidiary body for implementation at its fifty -ninth session ; 7. invites the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to th e paris agreement to affirm this decision , including the terms of refe
e board to continue to address the needs of developing countries that are particularly vulne rable to the adverse effects of climate change ; 15. invites the board to enhance support for the least developed countries , small island developing states and other developing countries in developing proj
 deforestation and forest degradation , conserving forest carbon stocks , sustainably managing forests and enhancing forest carbon stocks ; 4 17. invites the board to support t he comprehensive implementation of the fund ’ s private sector strategy and in this context support the fund ’ s engagemen
a . 1 ( b ) ( iii ) . fccc/cp/2022/10/add.2 26 18. requests the board to consider enhancing ambition in the next version of its gender policy and invites the board to take into account the implementation of the enhanced lima work programme and its gender action plan within its existing guidance ; 1
e working group of the local communities and indigenous peoples platform and the international indigenous peoples ’ forum on climate change ; 21. invites parties to submit to the secretariat views and recommendations on elements of guidance for the green climate fund via the submission portal5 no l
sure that its policies and procedures related to the consideration and review of funding proposals are duly followed in an efficient manner ; 19. invites parties to submit their views and recommendations on elements of guidance for the global environment facility via the submission portal8 no later
. welcomes the collaboration of the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network in their joint work in 20222 and invites them to continue undertaking joint work and enhance their exchange of systematic feedback with a view to ensuri ng coherence and synergy and effe
on , water – energy –food syst ems , energy systems , buildings and infrastructure , business and industry , and technology needs assessment ; 5. invites the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network to jointly pursue collaborative partnerships and strategic engag
ion , including in the private sector , with a view to facilitating the implementation of all activities under the joint work programme ; 6. also invites the technology executive commi ttee and the climate technology centre and network to strengthen their systematic engagement with national designa
ignated entities , to increase the reach and impact of the work of the technolo gy mechanism on policies and practices on the ground ; 7. further invites parties , the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network to explore ways to provide enhanced technical and logi
s and accelerators planned by the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network under the joint work programme and invites the two bodies to continue to work with developing country parties , in particula r the least developed country parties and small island developi
 to ensure effective implementation of the joint work programme ; i. activities and performance of the technology executive committee in 2022 15. invites parties and relevant stakeholders to consider the relevant key messages and the implementation of recommendations of the technology executive com
keholders to consider the relevant key messages and the implementation of recommendations of the technology executive committee for 2022 and also invites the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network to consider the recommendations addressed directly to them ; 16.
the annual technical progress report of the paris committee on capacity - building for 20221 and takes note of the recommendations therein ; 2 2. invites parties , as appropriate , the operating entities of the financial mechanism , the constituted bodies under the convention , united nations organ
p . iii . 3 fccc/sbi/2020/13 , annex i . 4 fccc/sbi/2022/14 , annex i . 5 see document fccc/sbi/2022/14 , para . 14. fccc/cp/2022/10/add.2 34 10. invites parties and relevant institutions , as appropriate , to provide support and resources to the paris committee on capacity -building for implementi
he synthesis report of the sixth assessment report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change is expected to be completed by march 2023 and invites the intergovernmental panel on climate change to present the findings therein at the fifty-eighth session of the subsidiary body for scientific a
kages between gender -responsive climate action and just transition for promoting inclusive opportunities for all in a low -emission economy6 and invites the international labour organization to consider organizing a workshop or dialogue focused on the same topic ; 8. welcomes the contributions rel
 of national gender and climate change focal points at relevant mandated unfccc meetings , upon request and subject to available r esources ; 17. invites parties , united nations entities , constituted bodies , implementing entities and other relevant stakeholders to enhance implementation of the g
ce of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement ( november 2024 ) would come from the eastern european states ; 5. invites parties to come forward with offers to host the sessions referred to in paragraph 4 above , which will be held from monday , 11 november , to fri
ties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agre ement ( november 2025 ) would come from the latin american and caribbean states ; 8. invites parties to come forward with offers to host the sessions referred to in paragraph 7 above , which will be held from monday , 10 november , to fri
ecretariat to consult the united nations secretary -general on ways to promote the ratification of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol ; 14. invites parties to submit via the submission portal ,2 by 1 may 2018 , additional information on progress in implementing decision 1/cp.21 , section iv :
w of the lima work programme on gender4 so as to consider the next steps , including an assessment of th e impacts of the gender action plan ; 8. invites parties and relevant organi zations to participate and engage in the implementation of gender -related activities within the gender action plan ,
he convention and taking into conside ration the vulnerabilities of agriculture to climate change and approaches to addressing food security ; 2. invites parties and observers to submit,2 by 31 march 2018 , their views on elements to be included in the work referred to in paragraph 1 above for con 
convene a meeting in may 2018 on all areas of its work , which will include wide consultations with stakeholders to ensure regional coverage ; 8. invites the task force on displacement referred to in paragraph 2 above to take into consideration both cross -border and internal displacement , i n acc
nd slow onset events , with a view to informing the preparation of the technical paper referred to in paragraph 2 ( f ) of decision 4/cp.22 ; 10. invites parties , observers and other stakeholders to submit,5 by 15 february 2018 , their vi ews in the context of activity 1 ( a ) of strategic workstr
 report on the expert dialogue referred to in paragraph 9 above for consideration by the exec utive committee at its second meeting in 2018 ; 12. invites parties , relevant organizations and other stakeholders to submit,6 by 1 february 2019 , their views and inputs on possible elements to be includ
s that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change , vulnerable populations and the ecosystems that they depend on ; 15. invites united nations and other relevant institutions , specialized agencies and other entities , the research community , civil society and the private
ressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change , including extreme weather events and slow onset events ; 16. also invites relevant research institutions and organization s to share , as appropriate , their data and key findings on slow onset events with the executive
f the executive committee and its expert groups , subcommittees , panels , thematic advisory groups and task -focused ad hoc working groups ; 22. invites relevant organizations , as appropriate , to further mobilize resources , including expertise and tools , through a wide variety of instruments ,
 findings and messages contained therein , including the summaries of the various segments , and the key areas of action from this workshop , and invites parties and relevant institutions to consider the key messages ; 5 13. recalls that , in accordance with decision 7/cp.22 , the next in -session 
 reports on the in -session workshops on long -term climate finance and the 2018 biennial assessment and overview of climate finance f lows ; 17. invites the presidency of the conference of the parties , in organizing the high -level ministerial dialogue referred to in paragraph 16 above , to consi
es note of the summary report on the 2017 forum , including the recommendations and follow -up activities of the standing commit tee on finance,3 invites the standing committee on finance to follow up on the recommendations in its 2018 workplan , and invites parties and relevant organizations to in
 of the standing commit tee on finance,3 invites the standing committee on finance to follow up on the recommendations in its 2018 workplan , and invites parties and relevant organizations to incorporate the recommendations into their work as appropriate ; 5. expresses its gratitude to the governme
 verification of support , and in the context of its extended workplan , to continue its cooperat ion with relevant stakeholders and experts ; 9. invites the standing committee on finance to conclude its deliberations on the topic of its next forum at the latest at its first meeting in 2018 ; 10. w
 utilization of specific and target ed outputs and recommendations in order to effectively advance the work of the conference of the parties ; 7. invites parties and relevant stakeholders to utilize the outputs of the standing committee on finance ; 8. encourages the standing committee on finance t
ctions on the forum , and to enhance the dissemination , use and ownership of the accumulated knowledge and expertise gathered at the forum , and invites other bodies and external organizations to take into consideration the outputs of the forum ; 13. acknowledges the transparency of the proceeding
rt to prepare national adaptation plans and voluntary adaptation planning processes , including timely disbursement for approved programmes ; 11. invites the board to consider ways to improve the availability of information on accessing funding from the green climat e fund , as appropriate ; 12. ta
p of climate technologies with a view to informing the technology mechanis m as it undertakes further work on climate technology innovation ; 19. invites parties to submit their views and recommendations on elements to be taken into account in developing guidance for the board of the green climate 
, in line with decision 1/cp.21 , paragraph 86 ; 9. notes the global environment facility council decision gef/c.50/074 and its conclusions , and invites the global environment facility to further consider ways to improve its access modalities for developing c ountry parties , including small islan
11. encourages the global environment facility to further enhance engagement with the private sector , including in its technology projects ; 12. invites the global environment facility to allocate provisions in the climate cha nge focal area of its seventh replenishment for supporting developing c
ntry parties in undertaking technology needs assessments and piloting priority technology projects to foster innovation and investment ; 13. also invites the global environment facility to include information in its reports to the conference of the parties on : ( a ) the collaboration between the g
n , parties and other organizations on ways forward and necessary actions to be taken based on the outcomes of the technical expert meetings ; 6. invites expert organizations , constituted bodies under the convention and non -party stakeholders to enhance their engagement in the technical examinati
 constituted bodies under the convention and non -party stakeholders to enhance their engagement in the technical examination processes ; 7. also invites expert organizations to volunteer , through the secretariat , to lead the organization of relevant technical expert meetings ; 8. further invites
invites expert organizations to volunteer , through the secretariat , to lead the organization of relevant technical expert meetings ; 8. further invites the lead expert organizations and requests the secretariat , as appropriate , in organizing the technical expert meetings : 1 decision 1/cp.21 , 
ptions and opportunities referred to in paragraph 2 above for inclusion in the technical papers5 and subsequent summaries for policymakers ; 6 9. invites parties and non -party stakeholder s to organize regional technical expert meetings , building on existing regional climate action events , as ap
eferred to in paragraph 2 above , including by info rming the summaries for policymakers,7 the high -level events8 and the talanoa dialogue ; 11. invites parties and non -party stakeholders to share experience on actions taken and pledges made towards addressing the recommendations referred to in p
executive secretary to sign , on behalf of the conference of the parties , the memorandum of unders tanding referred to in paragraph 5 above ; 7. invites the united nations environment programme , as the host of the climate technology centre , with the support of the climate technology centre and n
emerging and cross -cutting issues ; innovation and research , development and demonstration ; mitigation ; and technology needs assessments ; 8. invites parties and all relevant stakeholders working on technology development and transfer , when implementing climate technology action , to consider 
ttee , noting that these are in th e areas of innovation , industrial energy and material efficiency , and technology needs assessments ; 9. also invites the technology executive committee to continue to enhance the linkages between the technology needs assessments process and the nationally dete r
tion committee and the executive committee of the warsaw international mechanism for loss and damage associated with climate change impacts ; 11. invites the technology executive committee to enhance its communication and outreach st rategy ; ii . activities and performance of the climate technolog
banks regarding collaborative activities , including the implementation of technical assistance requests with scalable investment potential ; 17. invites the climate technology centre and network to continue providing support for enhancing the capacity of national designated entities ; 18. also inv
tes the climate technology centre and network to continue providing support for enhancing the capacity of national designated entities ; 18. also invites parties that have not yet nominated their national designated entities to communicate their nomination to the secretariat through their nati onal
committee on capacity -building ; 2 5. also takes note of the rolling workplan of the paris committee on capacity -building for 2017 –2019 ; 3 6. invites parties and relevant institutions to provide support and resources to the paris committee on capacity -building in implementing its 2017 –2019 wo
d guide the implementation of , capacity -building activities in countries with economies in transition that are currently receiving support ; 3. invites parties included in annex ii to the convention and other parties in a position to do so , the global environment facility , multilateral and bila
scale of contributions for 2018 and 2019 contained in the annex , cove ring 85 per cent of the indicative contributions specified in table 1 ; 6. invites the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol , at its thirteenth session , to endorse the elements o
the kyoto protocol , at its thirteenth session , to endorse the elements of the recommended budget as it app lies to the kyoto protocol ; 7. also invites the united nations general assembly to decide , at its seventy -second session , on the issue of meeting the conference services expenses from it
vities under each programme ; 11. decides to maintain the level of the working capital reserve at 8.3 per cent of the estimated expenditure ; 12. invites all parties to the convention to note that contri butions to the core budget are due on 1 january of each year in accordance with paragraph 8 ( b
he execut ive secretary ( see table 4 ) ; 1 decision 15/cp.1 , annex i . 2 fccc/sbi/2017/4 . 3 as footnote 1 above . fccc/cp/2017/11/add.2 17 14. invites parties to make contributions to the trust fund for participation in the unfccc process ; 15. takes note of the funding estimates for the trust f
rust fund for supplementary activities specified by the executive secretary ( eur 53,4 84,419 for the biennium 2018 –2019 ) ( see table 5 ) ; 16. invites parties to make contributions to the trust fund for supplementary activities with a view to enabling the implementation of mandated activities en
, the president to be elected at the sessions to be held from 11 to 22 november 2019 would come from the latin american and caribbean states ; 6. invites parties to undertake further consultations on the hosting of the sessions referred to in paragraph 5 above ; 7. requests the subsidiary body for 
ps , the president to be elected at the sessions to be held from 9 to 20 november 2020 would come from the western european and other states ; 9. invites parties to undertake further consultations on the hosting of the sessions referred to in paragraph 8 above ; 10. requests the subsidiary body for
ge sixth assessment report1 and the recent global and regional reports on the state of the climate from the world meteorological organization and invites the 1 intergovernmental panel on climate change . 2021. climate change 2021 : the physical science basis . contribution of working group i to the
entation of adaptation actions and priorities ; 8. urges parties to further integrate adaptation into local , national and regional planning ; 9. invites the intergovernmental panel on climate change to present to the conference of the parties at its twenty -seventh session ( november 2022 ) the fi
 differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities and in the context of sustainable development and efforts to eradicate poverty ; 19. invites parties to consider further actions to reduce by 2030 non- carbon dioxide greenhouse gas emissions , including methane ; 20. calls upon parties t
35. welcomes the joint annual reports of the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network for 2020 and 2021 5 and invites the two bodies to strengthen their collaboration ; 36. emphasizes the importance of strengthening cooperative action on technology development an
engthen adaptation and mitigation action and on the dialogue on the relationship between land and climate change adaptation related matters ; 59. invites parties to submit views on how to enhance climate action on land under the existing unfccc programmes and activities in paragraph 75 of the repor
 advice to prepare an informal summary report thereon and make it available to the conference of the parties at its twenty -seventh session ; 60. invites the relevant work pr ogrammes and constituted bodies under the unfccc to consider how to integrate and strengthen ocean -based action in their ex
on in their existing mandates and workplans and to report on these activities within the existing reporting processes , as appropriate ; 61. also invites the chair of the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice to hold an annual dialogue , starting at the fifty- sixth session of the
nd representati on in multilateral , national and local decision -making processes , including under the convention and the paris agreement ; 65. invites future presidencies of the conference of the parties , with the support of the secretariat , to facilitate the organization of a n annual youth -
ommendations for all workstream activities in its workplans ; 3. welcomes the flexible workplan of the adaptation committee for 2022 –2024 ; 2 4. invites the adaptation committee to improve its efforts to measure the outreach of its events and publications by including , in its flexible workplan , 
al attendance to ensur e inclusive participation , including by observers , while acknowledging the challenges posed by online participation ; 6. invites parties to identify one or more adaptation contact points through their unfccc national focal points with a view to enhancing the dissemination o
on 5/cp.22 , mandating the review at its twenty -seventh session of the progress , effectiveness and performance of the adaptation committee ; 8. invites the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at its fourth session ( novem ber 2022 ) , as provided
 progress in mobilizing and scaling up climate finance held by the presidency of the conference of the parties at its twenty- sixth session , and invites parties and relevant institutions to consider the key messages contained therein ; 16. notes with appreciation the note by the presidency of the 
 of th e parties to summarize the deliberations at the dialogue s for consideration by the conference of the parties in the year thereafter ; 21. invites the presidency of the twenty -seventh session of the conference of the parties to organize the high- level ministerial dialogue on climate financ
report % 20- % 20v4.pdf . 3 fccc/cp/2021/10/add.1 –fccc/pa/cma/2021/7/add.1 . 4 reports submitted as at october 2020. fccc/cp/2021/12/add.1 15 8. invites the operating entities of the financial mechanism and other institutions providing climate finance to consider the operational definitions of cli
 the needs of developing country parties related to implementing the c onvention and the paris agreement when costing and determining needs ; 18. invites the operating entities of the financial mechanism , united nations agencies , multilateral and bilateral financial institutions , and other relev
particularly evident in countries that capture their climate action budgets under the national budgeting process . v. recommendations 71. the scf invites the cop and the cma to consider the following recommendations : ( a ) encourage developing country parties and climate finance providers , as wel
 president of the conference of the part ies on the matter of granting privileges and immunities for the green climate fund and its officials and invites the board to continue efforts to ensure that the fund enjoys privileges and immunities as are necessary ; 13. urges the board to finalize in a ti
 considerations into its activities , including through its gender policy and by promoting gender balance across the structures of the fund ; 15. invites the board to consider ways of improving access to the fund for local non-governmental and private sector organi zations ; 16. also i nvites parti
g discussions on the eighth replenishment process regarding its allocation policies under t he system for transparent allocation of resources and invites the global environment facility to duly consider the needs and priorities of developing countr y parties when allocating resources to developing 
takes note of ongoing discussions within the global environment facility concerning the small grants programme under the eighth replenishment and invites the global environment facility to consider increasing the funding ceiling per project to provide adequate financial and technical support to com
other sources of available information , including the biennial assessment and overview of climate finance flows and other relevant reports ; 19. invites parties to submit views and recommendations on elements of guidance for the global environment facility via the submission portal8 no later than 
uing pandemic ; 2. welcomes the continuing coll aboration of the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network and invites them to strengthen their collaboration and the provision of feedback between them with a view to ensuring coherence and synergy and effective imp
other relevant stakeholders , thereby facilitating progress in successfully implementing activities in its rolling workplan for 2019– 2022 ; 2 8. invites parties and relevant stakeholders to consider the recommendations of the technology executive committee on ways forward and actions to be taken o
committee on ways forward and actions to be taken on the basis of the outcomes of the technical expert meetings on mitigation in 2020 ; 3 9. also invites parties and relevant stakeholders to consider the key messages and recommendations of the technology executive committee for 2020– 2021 on techno
do , republic of korea , which will focus its work on , inter alia , collaborating with the green climate fund and research and development , and invites the climate technology centre and network to report on experience and lessons learned therefrom ; 22. welcomes with appreciation the continuing c
development through small and medium -sized enterpri ses and its efforts to enhance engagement with the private sector and n etwork members ; 24. invites the climate technology centre and network to continue its efforts to support developing countries in preparing and updating technology needs asse
es in preparing and updating technology needs assessments and technology action plans , as well as their implementation , upon request ; 25. also invites the climate technology centre and network to continue providing support for enhancing the capacity of national designated entities in developing 
 country national designated entities to better engage and fulfil its role ; and limited engagement and synergies among the network members ; 14. invites the climate technology centre and network and the technology executive committee to ex plore ways to strengthen their collaboration and thereby e
ee to ex plore ways to strengthen their collaboration and thereby enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of the technology mechanism ; 15. also invites the climate technology centre and network to enhance in its provision of services the engagement of private sector network members with a view to
ctor channels ; philanthropic sources ; and financial and in- kind contributions from the host organization and participants in the network ; 21. invites the climate technology centre and network to continue working with the operating entitie s of the financial mechanism to further strengthen their
eports of the paris committee on capacity - building for 2020 and 20211 and takes note of the recommendations contained in the 2021 report ; 2 2. invites parties , as appr opriate , the operating entities of the financial mechanism , the constituted bodies under the convention , united nations orga
that capacity gaps and needs still exist in developing countries pertaining to the implementation of the convention and the paris agreement ; 10. invites parties and relevant institutions , as appropriate , to provide support and resources to the paris committee on capacity -building for implementi
l ways for enhancing capacity -building in countries with economies in transition by sharing examples of best practice s and lessons learned ; 4. invites parties to enhance reporting on best practices related to capacity -building in their national communications , biennial reports , submissions an
ith a view to further ing learning and broadening the impact of capacity -building activities in countries with economies in transition ; 5. also invites parties included in annex ii to the convention and other parties in a position to do so , the global environment facility , multilateral and bila
d within their mandates , to continue to provide support for capacity -building activities in countries with economies in transition ; 6. further invites parties and relevant institutions to provide information on capacity - building activities in countries with economies in transition to the secre
idway point before t he review referred to in paragraph 2 above , as a way to reflect on the evolving needs of the least developed countries ; 4. invites the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement to review the progress of the group a s it relates to 
uted bodies , while taking into account its nature as a technical e xpert group , and to provide information on these efforts in its reports ; 7. invites parties and relevant organizations to continue to provide resources for supporting implementation of the group ’ s work programme ; 8. requests t
nal adaptation plans , national and subnational development plans and strategies , the sustainable development goals and relevant frameworks ; 9. invites the group to consider under its workpla n the possibility of creating , as needed , thematic working groups to expand its technical support in sp
ice , 1. welcomes the report on the 5th meeting of the facilitative working group of the local communities and indigenous peoples platform ; 1 2. invites relevant bodies under the convention to take into account the recommendations of the facilitative working group to the subsidiary body for scient
ilitates continued collaboration among parties and indigenous peoples and loca l communities on addressing and responding to climate change ; 10. invites parties and stakeholders to enhance engagement of indigenous peoples and representatives of local communities in diverse and innovative ways in a
; 16. takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in this decision ; 17. invites interested parties and organizations to provide financial support for implementation of the functions of the local communities and indigenous peo
nt to decision 2/cma.2 , paragraph 44 ; 1 fccc/sb/2020/3 and fccc/sb/2021/4 and add.1 –2 . 2 as footnote 1 above . fccc/cp/2021/12/add.2 14 “ 6 . invites organizations , bodies , networks and experts to include the following when reporting on the technical assistance provided to developing countrie
ee d ecision 3/cp.25 , para . 7 . 5 fccc/pa/cma/2021/8/rev.1 , paras . 106 –113 . 6 see decision 3/cp.25 , para . 10. fccc/cp/2021/12/add.2 36 2. invites parties , united nations entities , other stakeholders and implementing entities , in accordance with their respective mandates and priorities , 
/12/add.2 37 12. takes note of the recommendations arising from the workshop on the role of national gender and climate change focal points11 and invites parties to consider those recommendations and take action , as appropriate , to provide support for the focal points in undertaking their activit
ce of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement ( november 2024 ) would come from the eastern european states ; 8. invites parties to come forward with o ffers to host the sessions referred to in paragraph 7 above , which will be held from monday , 11 november , to fr
ns contained in the annex ; 7. notes that the indicative scale of contributions covers 89 per cent of the contributions specified in table 1 ; 8. invites the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol , at it s sixteenth session , to endorse the elements o
 the kyoto protocol , at it s sixteenth session , to endorse the elements of the recommended budget as it applies to the kyoto protocol ; 9. also invites the united nations general assembly to decide , at its seventy -sixth and seventy -seventh sessions , on the issue of meeting the conferenc e ser
arties that have not made contributions in full to the core budget for the current and/or previous bienniums to do so without further delay ; 15. invites all parties to the convention to note that each party shall , prior to 1 january of each year , inform the secretariat of the contribution it int
10.6 million for the trust fund for participation in th e unfccc process specified by the executive secretary for the biennium 2022 –2023 ; 4 17. invites parties to make contributions to the trust fund for participation in the unfccc process ; 18. takes note of the funding estimate of eur 68.5 mill
.5 million for the trust fund for supplementary activities specified by the executive secretary for the biennium 2022 –2023 ( see table 4 ) ; 19. invites parties to make contributions to the trust fund for supplementary activities with a view to enabling the implementation of activities envisa ged 
