ntities of the financial mechanism and constituted bodies under the convention serving the paris agreement to continue t o provide , within their mandates , support for capacity -building as referred to in paragraph 1 above ; 3. invites other organizations in a position to do so to provide support f
raphs 36 –40 , 1. notes the consideration by the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice and the conference of the parties of the mandates contained in decision 1/cp.21 , paragraphs 36 –40 ; 1 2. also notes that draft decision texts on these matters in the proposal by the president2 
ties could not reach consensus thereon ; 3. requests the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice to continue consideration of the mandates referred to in paragraph 1 above , taking into consideration the draft decision texts referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 above , with a view to fo
ty , the adaptation fund , the climate tec hnology centre and network and the paris committee on capacity -building , in line with their existing mandates and governing instruments , to continue channelling support to developing country parties for the implementation of their adaptation plans and ac
 ; 3. encourages institutional arrangements related to finance , technology devel opment and transfer and capacity -building,2 in line with their mandates , to strive for a balance between adaptation and mitigation while respecting a country -driven approach ; 4. invites partner organizations of the
on and sharing knowledg e ; 5. also invites the consultative group of experts and the least developed countries expert group , in line with their mandates , as appropriate , ensuring efficiency and consistency , to work together on training for assessing vulnerability and other aspects o f adaptatio
ther invites the paris committee on capacity -building and providers of capacity - building support , as appropriate and in accordance with their mandates , while further enhancing capacity -building efforts , to facilitate the access to and implementation of methodologies for assessing the adaptati
nts and modalities being developed under the paris agreement ; 28. invites the operating entities of the financial mechanism , in line with their mandates , to seek to ensure that the provision of fi nancial support to developing country parties is balanced between adaptation and mitigation activiti
ion activities ; 29. requests the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network to facilitate , in line with their mandates , the provision of support for technology development and transfer for adaptation in developing country parties , promoting a balance between ada
. decides that the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network , consistent ly with their respective functions , mandates and modalities of work , shall implement the technology framework in close collaboration under the guidance of the conference of the parties serv
21 , paragraph 69 . 2 see document fccc/sbi/2016/8 , paragraph 94 . 3 decision 15/cma.1 . fccc/pa/cma/2018/3/add.2 13 ( l ) responded to existing mandates under the paris agreement and to guidance from parties . 3. to undertake the assessment of effectiveness referred to in paragraph 2 above , the w
ums , engaging relevant constituted bodies , networks and work programmes under the conve ntion and the paris agreement , within their respective mandates and workplans and in partnership with relevant organizations , to identify ways of integrating loss and damage into relevant work and guidelines 
 19. encourages relevant constituted bodies , networks and work programmes under the convention and the paris agreement , within their respective mandates and workplans and in collaboration with the executive committee , to integrate loss and damage , where appropriate , into their work ; 20. acknow
the par is agreement , including through the operating entities of the financial mechanism , as appropriate , to the extent consistent with their mandates ; 37. requests the executive committee to further engage and strengthen its dialogue with the standing committee on f inance by providing input i
fforts and activities take place under a range of constituted bodies under the convention and the paris agreement , in line with their respective mandates , as well as by various bodies and actors outside the convention and the paris agreement ; 3. decides that the paris committee on capacity -build
ng capacity -building in developing countries and to enhance the coherence and coordination of capacity -building in accordance with the relevant mandates and activities of those bodies ; 6. requests the secretariat to include , in its annual compilation and synthesis report on the capacity -buildin
e on finance for 2020 and underlines the importance of the standing committee on finance focusing its work in 2020 in accordance with its current mandates ; 3. notes the outcomes of the discussions of the standing committee on finance on the 2020 biennial assessment and overview of climate finance f
mework ; 5. requests the t echnology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network to continue to im plement their respective mandates with strengthened efforts on all key themes of the technology framework when serving the paris agreement . 7th plenary meeting 12 december 2019 1
he parties to the paris agreement and its addendum ; 1 6. commends the work undertaken by the supervisory body since its inception to address the mandates given by the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agre ement at its third session ; 2 7. adopts the rules
 and recommending the schedule for implementing the work programme activities for the second phase , taking into account any additional r elevant mandates received from the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement , for consideration and adoption by the 
s and institutional arrangements under or serving the paris agreement and/or the convention , as necessary , taking into account their respective mandates ; fccc/pa/cma/2022/ 10/add.2 58 19. also requests the secretariat to prepare a technical paper , without formal status , for consideration by the
ragraph 1 above does not contain information on how the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network responded to mandates of parties in the im plementation of their work and requests the two bodies to include such information in their joint annual reports ; 13. encou
eration of its partnership and liaison office in songdo in its annual reports ; 21. notes with concern that securing funding for implementing the mandates of the technology mechanism remains an important challenge and encourages the provision of enhanced support to the technology mechanism ; 22. app
ty between the work of the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network and strengthens the implementation of the mandates of the technology mecha nism ; 4. notes with concern that securing funding for implementing the mandates of the technology mechanism remains an i
nd strengthens the implementation of the mandates of the technology mecha nism ; 4. notes with concern that securing funding for implementing the mandates of the technology mechanism remains an important challenge and encourages those in the position to do so to provide enhanced support to the techn
ontinue their efforts to enhance resource mobilization so as to meet the costs associated with their activities for implementing their respective mandates and providing support to developing countries in impl ementing mitigation and adaptation action ; 3 7. invites parties , the technology executive
s to consider the recommendations referred to in paragraph 1 above and to take any necessary action , as appropriate and in accordance with their mandates ; 3. acknowledges the progress of the paris committe e on capacity -building in delivering on its mandate to address gaps and needs , both curren
ps with other organizations , the private sector and donors in order to support implementation of the glasgow work programme ; 5. affirm that the mandates referred to in paragraph 4 above also apply in the context of the action plan ; 1 education , training , public awareness , public participation 
under the framework with the work of the subsidiary and constituted bodies under the convention and the paris agreement , taking into account the mandates of these bodies ; ( b ) nmas facilitated under the framework repres ent : ( i ) voluntary cooperative actions that are not reliant on market -bas
relevant bodies , institutional arrangements and processes under or related to the convention and the paris agreement , taking into account their mandates . v. work programme activities 8. the work programme will be initiated in 2022 and include , but not be limited to , the following activities : f
 their collaboration and the provision of feedback between them with a view to ensuring coherence and synergy and effective implementation of the mandates of the technology mechanism , inter alia , by exploring the preparation of a joint programme ; 3. takes note of the information provided in the j
 to consider the recommendations referred to in paragraph 1 above and to take any necessary action , as appr opriate and in accordance with their mandates ; 3. acknowledges progress made by the paris committee on capacity -building in implementing its mandate to address gaps and needs , both current
tation impacts and results of the adapt ation fund , including using local and sector -specific metrics ; ( e ) to report on progress made on the mandates arising from this decision in the future reports of the adaptation fund to the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to
l development banks , international financial institutions and the private sector , or any further arrangements , as appropriate and within their mandates , to continue to provide support for capacity -building activities in countries with econom ies in transition that are currently receiving suppor
ble ; 16. requests the executive secretary to provide budgetary c ost implications in pre - session documents if they include suggestions for new mandates to the secretariat and if sufficient information is available on the details of the proposed activities ; 17. also r equests the executive secret
isions and conclusions in advance of decision -making ; 17. welcomes the notes by the executive secretary on the budgetary implications of unfccc mandates : standard costs , prepared for consideration at the fiftieth an d fifty -first sessions of the subsidiary body for implementation ; 6 18. reques
al d evelopment banks , international financial institutions and the private sector or any further arrangements , as appropriate and within their mandates , to continue to provide support for capacity -building activities in countries with economies in transition ; fccc/kp/cmp/2021/ 8/add.1 17 6. fu
 experts ; ( c ) requesting the technology execu tive committee and the climate technology centre and network in accordance with their respective mandates : ( i ) to engage in the technical expert meetings and enhance their efforts to facilitate and support parties in scaling up the implementation o
 the financial mechanism to enhance cooperation and collaboratio n with a view to enhancing the fulfilment and implementation of their respective mandates effectively , in accordance with article 12 , paragraph 4 , of the convention ; 8. requests the technology executive committee , the climate tech
f the adequacy of the long -term global goal referred to in decision 1/cp.16 , paragraph 4 493 189 27 supporting the implementation of adaptation mandates of a cross -cutting nature , including those relating to the durban platform , stakeholder engagement , communications and outreach 1 022 952 29 
n the implementation of the work programme resulting from the relevant requests contained in decision 1/cp.21 in accordance with their respective mandates ; fccc/cp/2016/ 10/add.1 3 7. also takes note of the invitation from the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the p
r workplan of the executive committee of the warsaw interna tional mechanism for loss and damage associated with climate change impacts , and the mandates ensuing from decision 1/cp.21 , paragraphs 48 and 49 , noting that while significant progress has been made in laying the foundation for work on 
 ; 4 6. requests the executive comm ittee to include in its five -year rolling workplan relevant work for advancing the operationalization of the mandates ensuing from decision 1/cp.21 , paragraphs 48 and 49 ; 7. notes that the executive committee will evaluate progress towards implementing its five
ee in the implementation of its workplan , including progress reported on enhancing overall coher ence in relation to adaptation and the relevant mandates contained in decision 1/cp.21 , and on its efforts to enhance its performance with the overall aim of enhancing adaptation action ; 3. notes with
 building , in order to enhance the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans and actions , the implementation of the relevant mandates contained in decis ion 1/cp.21 and access by developing country parties to adaptation finance , in particular from the green climate fund , as ap
he green climate fund , as appropriate ; 4. requests the adaptation committee to make use of additional modalities for responding to the relevant mandates contained in decision 1/cp.21 , including engaging with the nairobi work programme and its partner organizations , research institutions and othe
1 , welcoming the progress made by the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group in the fulfilment o f their respective mandates relating to providing information on accessing funding from the green climate fund for the process to formulate and implement national adaptation
ations by the standing committee on finance on the 2016 biennial assessment and overview of climate finance flows [ english only ] a. context and mandates 1. the standing committee on finance ( scf ) as sists the conference of the parties ( cop ) in exercising its functions with respect to the finan
de information in the respective chapters of their future joint annual reports on challenges and lessons learned in implementing their respective mandates ; activities and performance of the technology executive committee in 2016 7. welcomes the rolling workplan of the technology executive committee
o account all initiatives , actions and measures on capacity -building under the convention and the paris agreement as well as existing reporting mandates , in order to achieve coherence and coordination ; 5. further invites parties to foster networking and enhance their collaboration with academia 
ts the subsidiary body for implementation to develop a gender action plan in order to support the implementation of gender -related decisions and mandates under the unfccc process , which may include priority areas , key activities and indicators , timelines for implementation , the responsible and 
arsaw international mechanism for loss and damage associated with climate change impacts on the sources of financial support ; 5 12. confirms the mandates in arti cle 11 , paragraph 3 ( d ) , of the convention , and decisions 12/cp.2 , 12/cp.3 , 5/cp.19 and 1/cp.21 ; 13. requests the standing commit
ations by the standing committee on finance on the 2018 biennial assessment and overview of climate finance flows [ english only ] i. context and mandates 1. the standing committee on finance ( scf ) assists the conference of the parties ( cop ) in exercising its functions with respect to the financ
consider policies to balance funding for adapt ation and mitigation , taking into account beneficiary country strategies , and , in line with the mandates , building on experiences , policies and practices of the operating entities of the financial mechanism , particularly the gcf ; ( m ) encourage 
ion with the executive committee ; ( d ) invite bodies under the convention and the paris agreement , as appropriate and in accordance with their mandates and workplans , to facilitate the efforts of countries to , inter alia , develop climate change related risk ass essments and improved standards 
erse impacts of climate cha nge ; ( e ) invite the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group , in accordance with their mandates and workplans , and in collaboration with the executive committee , to assist developing country parties in integrating approaches to avert , min
 ; ( h ) invite united nations agencies , relevant organizations and other stakeholders , as appropriate and in accord ance with their respective mandates : ( i ) to continue supporting efforts , including finance , technology and capacity - building , of parties and other actors , including with an
s to consider the recommendations referred to in paragraph 1 above and to take any necessary action , as appropriate and in accordance with their mandates ; 3. welcomes the collaboration of the paris committee on capacity -building with non - party stakeholders , including through its capacity -buil
countries fund,3 the global environment facility , the green climate fund , and other bilateral and mu ltilateral sources within their respective mandates , and the private sector , as appropriate ; 5. requests the least developed countries expert group to support , and encourages other relevant bod
der and outside the convention and the paris agreement , including united nations entities , to assist with , in accordance with their respective mandates , as appropriate , the implementation of the least developed countries work programme and to include information on this in their reports , as ap
able ; 16. requests the executive secretary to provide budgetary cost implications in pre - session documents if they include suggestions for new mandates to the secretariat and if sufficient information is available on the details of the proposed activities ; 17. also requests the executive secreta
constituted bodies , the secretariat and other united nation s entities and stakeholders towards the consistent implementation of gender -related mandates and activities . d. gender -responsive implementation and means of implementation 7. to ensure the respect , promotion and conside ration of gend
convention and the paris agreement . e. monitoring and reporting 8. to improve tracking of the implementation of and reporting on gender -related mandates under the lima work progr amme on gender and its gender action plan . 1 abbreviations used in the tables : cop = conference of the parties , sb =
nsibilities timeline deliverables/outputs level of implementation c.1 ensure that members of constituted bodies are introduced to gender -related mandates and to the relevance of gender in the context of their work in a consistent and systematic manner leading : secretariat contributing : relevant o
 to consider the recommendations referred to in paragraph 1 above and to take any necessary action , as appropriate and in accordanc e with their mandates ; 3. welcom es the work of the paris committee on capacity -building in relation to enhancing the coherence and coordination of capacity -buildin
der and out side the convention that engage in activities related to capacity - building , as appropriate and in accordance with their respective mandates ; ( b ) identifying capacity gaps and needs , both current and e merging , and recommending ways to address them ; 1 fccc/sbi/2017/11 , fccc/sbi/
stakeholder engagement with bodies and relevant actors under and outside the convention , as appropriate and in accordance with their respec tive mandates ; 10. further decides that , going forward and subje ct to the availability of resources , the paris committee on capacity -building shall conduc
nde r and outside the convention that engage in activities related to capacity -building , as appropriate and in accordance with their respective mandates : ( a ) collating and reviewing current and pl anned capacity -building work of constituted bodies established under the convention that implemen
 engaging with bodies under and outside the convention that are engaged in implem enting capacity -building activities , as consistent with their mandates ; 2. priority area ( b ) : i dentifying capacity gaps and needs , both current and emerging , and recommending ways to address them : ( a ) inter
paris c ommittee on capacity -building to gather information on what they are doing to address capacity gaps and needs in areas relevant to their mandates to provide input to their work , as appropriate ; ( b ) continuing efforts to gather and promote the development and d issemination of tools and 
stakeholder engagement with bodies and relevant actors under and outside the convention , as appropri ate and in accordance with their respective mandates : ( a ) collecting information from relevant sources , including the durban forum , on good practices , experience and lessons learned related to
areas of collaborative work with those bodies whose work is relevant to the paris committee on capacity -building and its workplan , within their mandates ; ( iii ) how information from the durban forum can be utilized by b odies under and outside the convention ; ( c ) organizing the annual capacit
e on finance for 2020 and underlines the importance of the standing committee on finance focusing its work in 2020 in accordance with its current mandates ; 3. notes the outcomes of the discussions of the standing committee on finance on the 2020 biennial assessment and overview of climate finan ce 
ithin the scope of its mandate and its operational modalities ; 9. also invites the global environment facility , in accordance with its existing mandates and in collaboration with the green climate fund , to report on lessons learned in supporting developing c ountries in collecting and managing in
rogramme budget approved in paragraph 1 above , to seek to allocate adequate resources for constituted bodies in support of their response to the mandates give n by the governing bodies , and for the mandated activities under the current transparency arrangements ; 3. also r equests the executive se
isions and conclusions in advance of decision -making ; 17. welcomes the notes by the executive secretary on the budgetary implications of unfccc mandates : standard costs , prepared for consideration at the fiftieth and fifty -first sessions of the subsidiary body for implementation ; 6 18. request
 recognized that information provided during the workshops and in the workshop reports5 and other information provide a mapping of activities and mandates of unfccc constituted bodies ; 1 food and a griculture organization of the united nations , international fund for a gricultural development , un
ccount the conclusions of the subsidiary bodies referred to in paragraph 2 above in implementing their actions and workplans , according to their mandates ; 12. invites parties to consider policies , actions and measures relevant to implementing the conclusions referred to in paragraph 2 above ; 13.
/cp/2022/10/add.1 20 agriculture and food security , respecting the party- driven approach and in accordance with their respective procedures and mandates ; ( e ) enhancing research and development on issues related to agriculture and food security and consolidating and sharing related scientific , 
ion and review of proposals for funding ; 5. invites the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group , in line with their mandates , to continue formulating recommendations on ways to facilitate the mobilization of support for the formulation and implementation of national ad
e workplan of the standing committee on finance for 20239 and underlines the importance of the committee focusing its work in 2023 on its current mandates ; 18. welcomes the efforts of the standing committee on financ e to continue to strengthen its engagement with stakeholders in the context of its
dd.2 6 annex * summary and recommendations of the fifth biennial assessment and overview of climate finance flows [ english only ] i. context and mandates 1. the fifth ba conducted by the scf1 provides an updated overview of climate finance flows up until 2020 , highlighting the trends therein , and
ce flows with the needs and priorities of beneficiaries . 2. since the first ba was conducted in 2014 , the preparation of bas has been guided by mandates from the cop and the cma to the scf.3 the fifth ba comprises this summary , prepared by the scf , and a technical report prepared by experts unde
ragraph 1 above does not contain information on how the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network responded to mandates of parties in the implementation of their work and requests the two bodies to include such information in their joint annual reports ; 14. encour
ration of its partnership and liaison office in songdo in its annu al reports ; 22. notes with concern that securing funding for implementing the mandates of the technology mechanism remains an important challenge and encourages the provision of enhanced support to the technology mechanism ; 23. app
s to consider the recommendations referred to in paragraph 1 above and to take any necessary action , as appropriate and in accordance with their mandates ; 3. acknowledges the progress of the paris committee on capacity -building in delivering on its mandate to address gaps and needs , both current
s with other organizations , the private sector and donors in order to support implementation of the glasgow work programme ; 5. affirm that th e mandates referred to in paragraph 4 above also apply in the context of the action plan ; 1 educat ion , training , public awareness , public participation
puts ” column . 4. add a new activity in table 3 : “ c.4 encourage parties and relevant unfccc constituted bodies , in line with their respective mandates , to support action and implementation of the enhanced lima work programme on gender and its gender action plan ” . add “ part ies and constitute
ecision 3/cp.25 , annex , table 3. the aim of activity c.1 is to ensure that new member s of constituted bodies are introduced to gender -related mandates and to the relevance of gender in the context of their work in a consistent and systematic manner . 4 decision 3/cp.25 , annex , table 4. the aim
 convention , and the role of the gender action plan ( contained in the annex ) in supporting the implementation of gender -related decisions and mandates under the unfccc process , recalling decision 21/cp.22 , paragraph 27 , which mandated the development of a gender action plan in order to suppor
2 , paragraph 27 , which mandated the development of a gender action plan in order to support the implementation of gender -related decisions and mandates under the unfccc process , which may include priority areas , key activities and indicators , timelines for implementation , responsible and key 
 for implementation was requested to develop a gender action plan ( gap ) in order to support the implementation of gender -related decisions and mandates in the unfccc process , which may include priority areas , key activities and indicators , timelines for implementation , responsible and key act
rk of unfcc c bodies , the secretariat and other united nation entities and stakeholders towards the consistent implementation of gender -related mandates and activities . fccc/cp/2017/11/add.1 16 d. gender -responsive implementation and means of implementation 10. the gap aims to ensure the respect
eement . e. monitoring and reporting 11. the gap seeks to improve tracking in relation to the implementation of and reporting o n gender -related mandates under the unfccc . table 1 priority area a : capacity -building , knowledge -sharing and communication activit y responsible actors timeline deli
hoc working groups , such as appropriate balanced representation , expertise of membership in accordance with the tasks , and the duration of the mandates of those expert groups , subcommittees , panels , thematic advisory groups and task -focused ad hoc working groups ; 19. requests the executive c
ra ges the executive committee to collaborate with other bodies under the convention and the paris agreement within the scope of their respective mandates and to continue considering ways of facilitating the mobilization and securing of expertise , and the enhancement of support , including finance 
uding finance , technology and capacity -building , including its work on enhancing action and support , and when considering the composition and mandates of its expert groups and those it may establish ; 21. reiterates its encouragement to parties to make available sufficient resources for the succ
ers involved in the activities of the standing committee on finance ; 2. takes note with appreciation of the updated and expanded overview of the mandates provided by the conference of the parties to the standing committee on finance,1 and the progress made to date by the standing committ ee on fina
nce of the parties to the standing committee on finance,1 and the progress made to date by the standing committ ee on finance in fulfilling these mandates , as well as the self -assessment report of the standing committee on finance and the recommendations contained therein ; 2 3. encourages parties
izes the need to avoid duplication of climate finance related work across the different subsidiary and constituted bodies , while resp ecting the mandates and competencies of the different bodies ; 11. requests the standing committee on finance to further refine its approach to maintaining linkages 
65 billion to support 54 projects and programmes in 73 countries ; ( b ) improvements to the initial project approval process , including ongoing mandates to address pol icy matters related to the approval of projects ; ( c ) an increase in the number of accredited entities , particularly direct acc
allenges and lessons learned by the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network in implementing their respective mandates ; 4. takes note of the updated procedures for preparing the joint annual report of the technology executive committee and the climate technology 
ee and the climate technology centre and net work to carry out monitoring and evaluation of the impacts of the implementation of their respective mandates ; 6. notes with appreciation the collaboration between the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network , and enc
l development banks , international financial institutions and the private sector , or any further arrangements , as appropriate and within their mandates , to continue to provide support for capacity -building ac tivities in countries with economies in transition that are currently receiving suppor
levant work pr ogrammes and constituted bodies under the unfccc to consider how to integrate and strengthen ocean -based action in their existing mandates and workplans and to report on these activities within the existing reporting processes , as appropriate ; 61. also invites the chair of the subs
 on finance for 20227 and underlines the importance of the standing committee on finance focusing its work in 2022 in accordance with its current mandates ; 22. endorses the outline of the technical report of the fifth biennial assessment and overview of climate finance flows of the standing committ
he standing committee on finance of the fourth ( 2020 ) biennial assessment and overview of climate finance flows [ english only ] i. context and mandates 1. the scf assists the cop in exercising its functions with respect to the financial mechanism of the convention , including in terms of measurem
nsibilities established under the cop , including the ba . 1 2. since the first ba in 2014 , the preparation of subsequent bas has been guided by mandates from t he cop and the cma to the scf.2 3. the fourth ( 2020 ) ba presents an updated overview and trends in climate finance flows up until 2018 a
minimum requirements or mandatory regulations over voluntary activities . actors are largely adopting approaches in line with their institutional mandates , ge ographical reach and interpretation of how climate risks and opportunities affect and benefit their operations . to date , initiatives with 
w -emission development trajectories . there appears to be limited evidence of the degree to which financial actors are aligning their investment mandates with climate resilience goals linked to article 2 , paragraph 1 ( b ) , of the paris agreement . there is a view that focusing on proper climate-
their collaboration and the provision of feedback between them with a view to ensuring coherence and synergy and effective implemen tation of the mandates of the technology mechanism , inter alia by exploring the preparation of a joint programme ; 3. welcomes the collaboration between the technology
ns to the multi -donor trust fund and multi -year commitments that enable the climate technology centre and network to successfully implement its mandates , and encourages the climate technology centre and network to continue these efforts ; 29. expresses its gratitude for the financial contribution
ues to face challenges that need attention , including limited and insufficient financial resources and a constrained budget for implementing its mandates given its broad scope of services ; administrative and communication challenges related to its management structure ; lack of resou rces of the d
 to consider the recommendations referred to in paragraph 1 above and to take any necessa ry action , as appropriate and in accordance with their mandates ; 3. acknowledges progress made by the paris committee on capacity -building in implementing its mandate to address gaps and needs , both current
al development banks , international financial institution s and the private sector or any further arrangements , as appropriate and within their mandates , to continue to provide support for capacity -building activities in countries with economies in transition ; 6. further invites parties and rel
021/12/add.2 36 2. invites parties , united nations entities , other stakeholders and implementing entities , in accordance with their respective mandates and priorities , to take stock of and map progress in advancing gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls in line with the priority 
programme budget approved in paragraph 1 above , to seek to allocate adequate resources to constituted bodies in support of their response to the mandates gi ven by the governing bodies and to transparency - and adaptation -related activities while continuing to apply the established budget methodol
