 policies , programme priorities and eligibility criteria related to the paris agreement for transmission by the conference of the parties ; 10. recommends that , in accordance with decision 1/cp.21 , paragraph 61 , the conference of the parties transmit to the o perating entities of the financial m
 , subject to the decision on this matter made by the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol ; 2. recommends that the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol decide that the adaptation fund will continue to 
 their progress , as referred to in paragraph 44 above , in its annual reports ; 6 fccc/sb/2017/1/add.1 , annex . fccc/pa/cma/2019/6/add.1 9 46. recommends that the next review of the warsaw international mechanism be held in 2024 and every five years thereafter as follows : ( a ) the subsidiary bod
ision 6/cma.2 guidance to the green climate fund the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement , 1. recommends that the conference of the parties at its twenty -fifth session transmit to the green climate fund the guidance contained in paragraphs 2–8 belo
ma.2 guidance to the global environment facility the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement , 1. recommends that the conference of the parties at its twenty -fifth session transmit to the global environment facility the guidance contained in paragraphs
sion 16/cma.4 guidance to the green climate fund the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement , 1. recommends that the conference of the parties at i ts twenty -seventh session transmit to the green climate fund the guidance contained in paragraphs 2 –7 
ma.4 guidance to the global environment facility the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement , 1. recommends that the conference of the parties at its twenty -seventh session transmit to the global environment facility the guidance contained in paragrap
sion 11/cma.3 guidance to the green climate fund the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement , 1. recommends that the conference of the parties at its twenty -sixth session transmit to the green climate fund the guidance contained in paragraphs 2 –8 bel
calling decision 7/cma.2 , noting paragraph 9 ( b ) of the instrument for the establishment of the restructured global environment facility,1 1. recommends that the conference of the parties at its twenty -sixth session transmit to the global environment facility the guidance contained in paragraphs
ities in order to support the resource mobilization efforts of the adaptation fund board , with a view to strengthening the adaptation fund ; 8. recommends that the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement , at its first session , consider that the adapt
ities in order to support the resource mobilization efforts of the adaptation fund board , with a view to strengthening the adaptation fund ; 8. recommends that the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement , at its first session , consider that the adapt
r reducing the cost of activities where practicable ; 18. welcomes the information o n standard travel costs provided by the secretariat ; 8 19. recommends that the secretariat publish and regularly update information on standard costs on the unfccc website ( instead of the brief update reports ) an
for both anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks covered by their nationally determined contributions under the agreement ; 37. recommends that the confere nce of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement adopt rules , modalities and procedures for the
d make a recommendation to the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at its first session ; 61. recommends that the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement shall provide guidance to the entities entrusted
s review , also recalling decisions 3/cp.18 , 2/cp.19 , 2/cp.20 , 1/cp.21 and 2/cp.21 and the paris agreement , in particular its article 8 , 1. recommends further guidance relevant to enhancing and strengthening the warsaw international mechanism for loss and damage associated with climate change i
arsaw international mechanism at the twenty -second session of the conference of the parties , as referred to in paragraphs 2 –5 below ; 2. also recommends that : ( a ) there be a process to periodically review the warsaw international mechanism and that reviews take p lace no more than five years a
sm ; 3. recognizes that the executive committee may enhance its effectiveness by prioritizing activities in thematic areas for further work ; 4. recommends that the following may advance the work of the executive committee : ( a ) enhancing collaboration , coopera tion and partnerships with bodies ,
y for implementation to elaborate the topics for the workshops referred to in paragraph 11 above during 2017 and to report on the topics that it recommends for the workshops to the conference of the parties at its twenty -third session ( november 2017 ) ; 13. also requests the secretariat to prepare
ing considered the relevant recommendations of the ad hoc working group on the paris agreement at the second part of its resumed first session , recommends that the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement , at its first session , adopt the draft decisio
ermined contributions of the parties concerned ; 7. further decides to continue to work towards the full operationalization of the platform ; 8. recommends that the processes under the platform , including its operationalization , take into account , inter alia , the interests and views of local com
/2021/12/add.2 12 6. welcomes the second three -year workplan of the local communities and indigenous peoples platform for 2022 –2024 ; 3 , 4 7. recommends that the activities under the second three -year workplan facilitate exchange of experience between indigenous peoples and local communities and
or reducing the cost of activities where practicable ; 18. welcomes the information on standard travel costs provided by the secretariat ; 8 19. recommends that t he secretariat publish and regularly update information on standard costs on the unfccc website ( instead of the brief update reports ) a
