amme under the paris agreement , stressing the urgency for completion of the work programme under the paris agreement resulting from the relevant requests contained in section iii of decision 1/cp.21 in order to accelerate its implementation , recognizing the need for a meaningful and successful out
n the paris agr eement and the constituted bodies under the convention to accelerate their work on the work programme resulting from the relevant requests contained in section iii of decision 1/cp.21 , and to forward the outcomes to the conference of the parties at its twe nty-fourth session at the 
ris agreement ; 7. also confirms that the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund shall serve the paris agreement ; 8. requests the standing committee on finance to prepare draft guidance for the entities entrusted with the operation of the financial mechanism , and on the
s 14. takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in this decision ; 15. requests that the actions of the secretariat calle d for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 26th plenary 
ent , through a registry portal with two parts , comprising nationally determined contributions and adaptation communications , respectively ; 4. requests the secretariat : ( a ) to develop a prototype of the publi c registry referred to in article 4 , paragraph 12 , of the paris agreement by june 2
 budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat pursuant to the provis ions contained in paragraphs 2 –6 above ; 8. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . fccc/pa/cma/20
al assistance on uploading ndcs to the public registry , as required ; ( b ) contacts the national focal point to confirm the receipt of an ndc , requests clarificatio ns when necessary and confirms the finalization of the recording process of the submitted ndc in the public registry ; ( c ) underta
r ; 2 2. decides that parties shall apply common time frames to their nationally determined contributions to be implemented from 2031 onward ; 3. requests the subsidiary body for implementation to continue the consideration of common time frames for nationally determined contributions at its fiftiet
rum on the impact of the implementation of response measures and to operate in accordance with the terms of reference contained in the annex ; 6. requests the subsidiary bodies to review , at their fifty -ninth session s ( november 2023 ) , the functions , work programme and modalities of the forum 
o account relevant policy issues of concern to parties , for consideration and adoption by the subsidiary bodies at their fiftieth sessions ; 10. requests the subsidiary bodi es to conduct a midterm review of the workplan of the forum , starting from the ir fifty-sixth sessions ( june 2022 ) , with 
eeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol and the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the partie s to the paris agreement ; 13. requests the secretariat to support the implementation of the work programme of the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures ; 14. t
 of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be underta ken by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 2 , 5 and 7 above ; 15. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 1 https : //un
draft decision texts on these matters in the proposal by the president2 were considered , but that parties could not reach consensus thereon ; 3. requests the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice to continue consideration of the mandates referred to in paragraph 1 above , taking i
 paragraph 23 ( b ) of decision 19/ cma.1 and will contribute to reviewing the overall progress in achieving the global goal on adaptatio n ; 15. requests the adaptation committee to develop , with the engagement of the intergovernmental panel on climate change working group ii , using relevant exis
via the submission portal1 by february 2025 information on their experience with the application of the guidance contained in this decision ; 18. requests the secretariat to prepare a synthesis report on the submiss ions referred to in paragraph 17 above for consideration by the subsidiary body for 
 takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in paragraph 18 above ; 23. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . fccc/pa/cma/20
nt , through a registry portal with two parts , comprising adaptation communic ations and nationally determined contributions , respectively ; 4. requests the secretariat : ( a ) to develop a prototype of the public registry referred to in paragraph 1 above by june 2019 , in accordance with the moda
ppropriate , ensuring efficiency and consistency , to work together on training for assessing vulnerability and other aspects o f adaptation ; 6. requests the adaptation committee , as necessary and in consultation with relevant adaptation -related institutions , to continue to make recommendations 
 countries expert group related to synthesizing information on specific adaptation themes and on relevant lessons learned and good practices ; 9. requests the secretariat to include in the synthesis report prepared for the global stocktake called for in paragraph 23 ( b ) of decision 19 /cma.1 info 
fforts of developing country parties during the high-level events of the global stocktake referred to in paragrap h 33 of decision 19/cma.1 ; 11. requests the secretariat to prepare a report summarizing the recognition of adaptation efforts of developing country parties referred to in paragraph 10 a
luding the nap expo and the adaptation forum of the adaptation committee , to showcase the adaptation efforts of developing country parties ; 13. requests the secretariat , under the guidance of the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group and in collaboration with relevan
ctive ; iii . methodologies for assessing adaptation needs with a view to assisting developing countries without placing undue burden on them 15. requests the adaptation committee , in collaboration with the least develo ped countries expert group , partner organizations of the nairobi work programm
 methodologies for assessing adaptation needs , including needs related to action , fin ance , capacity -building and technological support ; 17. requests the adaptation committee , with the engagement of the intergovernmental panel on climate change working group ii , as appropriate , to prepare , 
ps are taken to identify and subsequently remove perverse incentives that could result in non -resilient investments and planning decisions ; 27. requests parties to report on s upport provided and received in line with the reporting instruments and modalities being developed under the paris agreeme
k to ensure that the provision of fi nancial support to developing country parties is balanced between adaptation and mitigation activities ; 29. requests the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network to facilitate , in line with their mandates , the provision of s
ort for capacity -building for adaptation in developing country parties , promoting a balance between adaptation an d mitigation activities ; 31. requests the secretariat to include in the synthesis report prepared for the global stocktake called for in paragraph 23 ( b ) of decision 19 /cma.1 an as
 estimated budgetary implications of the activities to b e undertaken by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 9 , 11 , 13 and 31 above ; 38. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 26th plenary m
ch information on a voluntary basis ; 3. underlines the importance of article 9 , paragraphs 1 and 3 , of the paris agreement on this matter ; 4. requests developed country parties to submit the biennial communications referred to in paragr aph 2 above and as specified in the annex starting in 2020 
020 ; 5. encourages other parties providing resources to communicate biennially , as referred to in paragraph 2 above , on a voluntary basis ; 6. requests the secretariat to establish a dedicated online portal for posting and recording the biennial communications ; 7. also requests the secretariat t
untary basis ; 6. requests the secretariat to establish a dedicated online portal for posting and recording the biennial communications ; 7. also requests the secretariat to prepare a compilation and synthesis of the information included in the biennial communications , referred to in paragraph 2 ab
 included in the biennial communications , referred to in paragraph 2 above , starting in 2021 , and to inform the g lobal stocktake ; 8. further requests the secretariat to organize biennial in -session workshops beginning the year after the submission of the first biennial communications referred 
mary reports on the in -session workshops referred to in paragraph 8 above and the biennial communications referred to in paragraph 2 above ; 11. requests the president of the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement to summarize the deliberations of the
ary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat pursuant to the provisions contained in paragraphs 6 –8 and 10 above ; 15. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this deci sion be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . fccc/pa/cma/2
work in close collaboration under the guidance of the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement ; 3. requests the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network : ( a ) to incorporate the guidance contained in the technology 
eport to both the conference of the parties and the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement ; 1 5. requests the technology executive committee and the climate tech nology centre and network to report on the progress of their work and challenges and less
e secretariat to facilitate the implementation o f the technology framework ; 1 fccc/sb/2017/3 , paragraph 43. fccc/pa/cma/2018/3/add.2 5 9. also requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . fccc/pa/cma/20
should guide improved effectiveness and enhanced support to the technology mechanism in supporting the implementation of the paris agreement ; 6. requests the subs idiary body for implementation to initiate , at its fifty -first session ( december 2019 ) , consideration of the alignment between proc
on by the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at its third session ( november 2020 ) ; 7. also requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 1 in accordanc
relating to technology development and transfer , including in relation to : ( i ) the implementation of its three core services : responding t o requests from developing countries ; fostering collaboration and sharing of information ; and strengthening networks , partnerships and capacity -building
 cma ) . the cma : ( a ) initiates the periodic assessment in accordance with paragraph 10 below ; ( b ) provides guidance to the secretariat and requests it to prepare interim and final reports on the periodic assessment ; ( c ) finalizes the periodic assessment , with possible outputs in accordanc
ions , private sector and other potential sources to support activities related to the implementation of article 12 of the p aris agreement ; 12. requests the secretariat : ( a ) to continue organizing , in collaboration with parties and international organizations , training , workshops , webinars 
 takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in paragraph 12 above ; 14. requests that the actions of the secretariat called fo r in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 26th plenary 
ansparency framework for action and support ( hereinafter referred to as the modalities , procedures and guidelines ) contained in the annex ; 2. requests the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice to undertake the first review and update , as appropriate , of the modalities , proce
 to nominate technical experts with the relevant qualifications to the unfccc roster of experts as referred to in chapter vii.i of the annex ; 6. requests the secretariat , in addition to the actions specified in the modalities , procedures and guidelines , to : ( a ) produce synthesis reports on pa
or the building of transparency -related capacity of developing co untry parties on a continuous basis ; fccc/pa/cma/2018/3/add.2 19 8. urges and requests the global environment facility , as an operating entity of the financial mechanism , throughout its replenishment cycles , to support developing
ent , including through better streamlining of the processes related to applications , implementation plans and signing of grant agreements ; 11. requests the global environment facility to continue to support the operation of the capacity -building initiative for transparency as a priority reportin
ility to continue to support the operation of the capacity -building initiative for transparency as a priority reporting -related need ; 12. also requests the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice to develop , pursuant to the modalities , procedures and guidelines , for considerati
vice to the se cretariat on the implementation of the training of the technical expert review teams referred to in paragraph 12 ( c ) above ; 16. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resou rces . 1 https : //u
ialogue and for p reparing a factual synthesis report and other outputs of the technical assessment , with the assistance of the secretariat ; 7. requests the chairs of the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice and the subsidiary body for implementation to deve lop guiding question
 of the overall global stocktake process on the basis of experience gained from the first and subsequent global stocktakes , as appropriate ; 16. requests the chairs of the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice and the subsidiary body for implementation to organize the global stock
and outsid e the unfccc can contribute to the global stocktake and the implementation of its outcome ; information collection and preparation 19. requests the chairs of the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice and the subsidiary body for implementation to issue a call for the inpu
outputs to ensure timely consideration of inputs , unless critical information that requires consideration emerg es after the cut -off date ; 21. requests the secretariat to facilitate online availability of all inputs to the global stocktake from parties , by thematic area , and to organize a webin
e most up -to- date inputs from the sources identified in paragraph 37 below two sessions of the subsidiary bodies prior to th e assessment ; 23. requests the secretariat , under the guidance of the co -facilitators referred to in paragraph 6 ( c ) above , to prepare for the technical assessment : (
with the assistance of t he secretariat , synthesis reports on the information identified in paragraph 36 below in their areas of expertise ; 25. requests the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice and the subsidiary body for implementation to identify potential informa tion gaps in
 body for implementation to identify potential informa tion gaps in relation to the global stocktake and , where necessary and feasible , to make requests for additional input , taking into account the cut -off date for the information collection and preparation component of the global stocktake and
the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat pursuant to the provisions contained in the annex ; 4. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . fccc/pa/cma/20
 decision 4/cma.1 ; 10. recalls the request contained in decision 1/cp.21 , paragraph 25 , to the secretariat to prepare a synthesis report , and requests the secretariat to make th e report available to the conference of the parties at its twenty -sixth session ( november 2020 ) ; fccc/pa/cma/2019/
owards the global goal on adaptation of enhancing adaptive capacity , strengthening resilience and reducing vulnerability to climate change ; 14. requests the adaptation committee to consider approaches to reviewing the overall progress made in achieving the global goal on adaptation and to reflect 
 takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in paragraph 10 above ; 19. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 8th plenary me
 committee to communicate its outputs in formats that are easy to translate , adapt and access in different contexts and by different users ; 12. requests the executive committee to identify modalities for fostering the sharing of relevant knowledg e and experience among practitioners and vulnerable
d damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change into relevant work under and outside the co nvention and the paris agreement ; 18. requests the secretariat , under the guidance of the executive committee , to organize meetings in conjunction with relevant regional forums , engaging re
 ; 24. stresses the importance of enhancing the work on slow onset events and non - economic losses associated with c limate change impacts ; 25. requests the executive committee to revise the terms of reference for and launch the expert groups on slow onset events and non -economic losses , taking 
 the broad range of issues covered by the relevant strategic workstre ams , which may need to be addressed using a sequential approach ; 26. also requests the executive committee and its thematic expert groups to develop technical guides within their work on their respective thematic areas , avoidin
are good practices for , averting , minimizing and addressing loss and damage , including long -term risk assessment and risk communication ; 29. requests the executive committee , in collaboration with relevant organizations , to foster public education and awareness -raising efforts at the regiona
ement , including through the operating entities of the financial mechanism , as appropriate , to the extent consistent with their mandates ; 37. requests the executive committee to further engage and strengthen its dialogue with the standing committee on f inance by providing input in line with dec
/2019/6/add.1 8 this context to take into account the strategic workstreams of the five -year rolling workplan of the executive committee ; 6 39. requests the executive committe e , in collaboration with the green climate fund , as an operating entity of the financial mechanism , to clarify how deve
 workplan of the executive committee , consistently with paragraph 38 above , and to include information thereon in its annual reports ; 40. also requests the executive committee to establish , by the end of 2020 , in accordance with its procedures and mandate , an expert group pursuant to decision 
aragraph 43 above engaged in providing tec hnical assistance to developing countries to report on their progress to the executive committee ; 45. requests the executive committee to include relevant information from the organizations , bodies , networks and experts that have reported on their progre
; 49. takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in this decision ; 50. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this deci sion be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 8th plenary m
 and to enhance the coherence and coordination of capacity -building in accordance with the relevant mandates and activities of those bodies ; 6. requests the secretariat to include , in its annual compilation and synthesis report on the capacity -building work of bodies established under the conven
aris agreement , as part of the review referred to in decision 11/cp.25 with a view to concluding it at its fifth session ( november 2022 ) ; 18. requests the standing committee on finance to report to the con ference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at its
g as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at its third session ( november 2020 ) on progress in implementing its workplan ; 19. also requests that the actions of the standing committee on finance called for in this decisi on be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resourc
unication and/or nationally determined contributions ; 6. encourages the green climate fund to continue to enhance its support for adaptation and requests the green climate fund to : ( a ) swiftly conclude its work on guidance on the approach and scope for providing support to adaptation activities 
acility in response to the guidance received from the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement ; 3. requests the global environment facility , as an operating entity of the financial mechanism , to adequately support developing country parties in prepari
tive workplan and programme o f work was not included in a comprehensive manner in the joint annual report referred to in paragraph 1 above , and requests the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network to include this information in their joint annual r eport for 20
mittee and the climate technology centre and network for collaboration in 2019 –20223,4 in supporting implementation of the paris agreement , and requests them to finalize in 2020 the development of activities to be undertaken jointly in those areas with a view to incorporating the guidance containe
rk to continue to report on the progress of their work as well as on challenges and lessons learned in implementing the technology framework ; 5. requests the t echnology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network to continue to im plement their respective mandates with streng
 parties to the paris agreement2 at its second session , while recognizing that these draft texts do not represent a consensus among parties ; 2. requests the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice to continue consideration of the matters referred to in paragraph 1 above at its fift
the paris agreement ( november – december 2023 ) ; 23. recalls article 3 and article 4 , paragraphs 3 , 4 , 5 and 11 , of the paris agreement and requests parties that have not yet done so to revisit and strengthen the 2030 targets in their nationally determined contributions as necessary to align w
to parties to update the strategies referred to in paragraph 2 4 above regularly , as appropriate , in line with the best available science ; 26. requests the secretariat to prepare a synthesis report on long -term low greenhouse gas emission development strategies referred to in article 4 , paragra
 address climate change , welcomes the pledges made to the two funds and invites developed countries to further contribute to the two funds ; 42. requests the standing committee on finance to prepare a report on the doubling of adaptation finance , in line with paragraph 18 of decision 1/cma.3 , for
n of pathways to achieving the goals of the paris agreement outlined in article 2 , paragraph 1 , in the context of article 2 , paragraph 2 , and requests the subsidiary body for implementation and the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice to recommend a dr aft decision on this mat
the new collective quantified goal and the report prepared by the president of the twenty -seventh session of the conference of the parties ; 64. requests the co -chairs of the ad hoc work programme to include in their annual report options for accelerating the achievement of the goal in article 2 o
standing of the scope of article 2 , paragraph 1 ( c ) , of the paris agreement and its complementarity with article 9 of the paris agreement and requests the secretariat , under the guidance of the presidency of the twenty -seventh session of the conf erence of the parties , to organize two worksho
e fifth session of the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement ; fccc/pa/cma/2022/ 10/add.1 20 14. requests the secretariat to publish the single annual report on the workshops for 2023 no later than three weeks prior to the fifth session of the confere
n three weeks prior to the fifth session of the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement ; 15. also requests the secretariat to include in the single annual report an ana lysis of the outcomes of the workshops and to prepare , under the guidance of the c
 submission portal prior to the fifth session of the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement ; 19. requests the chairs of the subsidiary bodies , with the support of the secretariat , to prepare a concept note and guiding questions , covering themes and
aragraph 10 above , at least two weeks in advance thereof , taking into account the submissions referred to in paragraphs 16 –17 above ; 20. also requests the chairs of the subsidiary bodies to select themes for the workshops to be held in 2023 , taking into account the following areas : ( a ) targe
 takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in paragraph 12 above ; 28. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of fina ncial resources . 10th plenary 
that the work programme will be carried out under the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement ; 7. requests the chairs of the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice and the subsidiary body for implementation to appoint , well in advance
cretion of the co-chairs of the work programme with a view to ensurin g inclusive and balanced geographical representation at the dialogues ; 10. requests the secretariat to organize , under the guidance of the co -chairs of the work programme , the dialogues referred to in paragraphs 8 –9 above in 
rty stake holders , and reflect the objective and the scope of the work programme referred to in paragraphs 1 and 4 above respectively ; 11. also requests the secretariat to organize , under the guidance of the co -chairs of the work programme and with the support of the hi gh-level champions , on t
rriers relev ant to the topics of the dialogues referred to in paragraph 13 above via the submission portal four weeks before each dialogue ; 15. requests the secretariat to prepare , under the guidance of the co -chairs of the work programme , a report on each of the dialogue s referred to in parag
arties to the paris agreement , the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice and the subsidiary body for implementation ; 16. also requests the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice and the subsidiary body for implementation , taking into account the annual report re
 of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 8 –11 and 15 above ; 21. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 10th plenary m
f meaningful mitigation actions and transparency on implementation and taking into account the needs and priorities of developing countries ; 11. requests the co -chairs of the ad hoc work programme on the new collective quantifie d goal on climate finance , with a view to significantly advancing su
n the issues to be addressed as part of the workplan referred to in paragraph 11 ( a ) above vi a the submission portal by 28 february 2023 ; 13. requests the secretariat to prepare a compilation and synthesis of the submissions referred to in paragraph 11 ( b ) above as input to the technical exper
and synthesis of the submissions referred to in paragraph 11 ( b ) above as input to the technical expert dialogues to be held in 2023 ; 14. also requests the secretari at , in organizing the technical expert dialogues in 2023 , to facilitate inclusive participation of all parties , in particular de
of the estimated budgetary implications of the activi ties to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 11 and 13–15 above ; 18. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 10th plenary m
 annex , chapter iv.b ( annual information ) , as contained in annex vii and to provide feedback via the submission portal3 by 30 april 2023 ; 3. requests the secretariat to organize a hybrid workshop on the draft version of the agreed electronic format referred to in paragraph 2 above at least one 
above at least one month prior to the fifty-eighth session of the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice ( june 2023 ) ; 4. also requests the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice to continue its work on the draft version of the agreed electronic format referred to
ions to nominate technical experts with the relevant qualifications to the unfccc roster of experts in accordance with annex ii , chapter xi ; 9. requests the secretariat to implement and maintain the training programme for technical ex perts participating in article 6 technical expert reviews pursu
ntation of the training for technical experts participating in art icle 6 technical expert reviews pursuant to annex ii , chapter xi.c ; 10. also requests the secretariat to report to the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice at its fifty -eighth session on progress in developing t
e referred to paragraph 1 ( d ) above and at each subsequent session until development of the training programme has been completed ; 11. further requests the secretariat to make available as soon as possible an initial version of the courses comprising the training program me , as outlined in annex
le no later than december 2023 the course related to the requirements of initial reports set out in decision 2/cma.3 , annex , paragraph 18 ; 12. requests the secretariat to promote geographical and gender balance a mong the technical experts participating in the training programme referred to in pa
 participation , to experts from developing countries , particularl y the least developed countries and small island developing states ; 13. also requests the secretariat to include any cases of persistent inconsistencies and/or non-responsiveness by a participating party , as contained in the recom
session , in relati on to paragraphs 16 ( a ) and 17 below ; ( b ) sixtieth session ( june 2024 ) , in relation to paragraph 16 ( b ) below ; 16. requests the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice to continue its work to develop , on the basis of the guidance in the annex to dec is
age for the period ; ( ii ) consideration of whether internationall y transferred mitigation outcomes could include emission avoidance ; 17. also requests the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice , on the basis of the guidance in the annex to decision 2/cma.3 and the further guida
 ; first transfer specifi cations ; and purposes towards which use of internationally transferred mitigation outcomes is authorized ; 18. further requests the secretariat to organize a workshop before 30 april 2023 , with broad participation , to enable the participatory sharing of views o n potenti
their views on potential challenges in the preparat ion of the reporting on elements listed in the initial report via the submission portal ; 20. requests the secretariat to prepare a technical paper on the basis of issues identified at the workshop referred to in paragraph 18 above and party submis
form the preparation of the manual referred to in paragraph 22 below to support the submission of in itial reports by participating parties ; 22. requests the secretariat to develop and regularly update a manual containing illustrative elements of information4 for the initial report , updated initia
the manual have no formal status , are for voluntary use and shall not be used or referred to in the article 6 technical expert review ; 23. also requests the secretariat to provide , as part of the capacity -building programme referred to in decision 2/cma.3 , paragraph 12 , capacity -building , in
ce , on the use of the reporting outlines and tables , particularly in relation to the completion and submission of initial reports ; 24. further requests the secretariat to expedite the implementation of the capacity - building programm e referred to in decision 2/cma.3 , paragraph 12 , within a ti
/cma/2022/ 10/add . 2 6 technological advice and the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement ; 25. requests the secretariat , as a matter of priority , to develop the centralized accounting and reporting platform and the article 6 database referred to i
 i , chapters ii–iii , and to make available a test version by june 2024 with a view to the first version being finalized by june 2025 ; 26. also requests the secretariat , as part of the implementation of the centralized accounting and reporting platform and the article 6 database , to make the det
ticle 6 databas e and any inputs on improving these systems via the submission portal within eight weeks of the release of the test version ; 28. requests the secretariat to provide an interim solution by january 2023 for the submission of information pursuant to decision 2/cm a.3 , annex , chapter 
platform when it is made available , which shall not supersede the performance of the consistency check after this information is submitted ; 30. requests the secretariat to develop and maintain the necessary processes and guidelines for the submission and processing of the information referred to i
f the centralized accounting and reporting platform in line with the timeline for its implementation referred to in paragraph 25 above ; 31. also requests the secretariat to explore opportunities for streamlining the process of making submissions under articles 6 and 13 , including by integrating th
eferred to in paragraph 34 below , and to publish relevant outputs in a dedicated area on the centralized accounting and reporting platform ; 33. requests the secretariat , pursuant to decision 2/cma.3 , annex , paragraph 30 , to : ( a ) implement the international registry in accordance with the gu
e secretariat referred to in annex ii , paragraph 1 ( d ) , in relation to the article 6 technical expert review of cooperative a pproaches ; 38. requests the secretariat to prepare a technical paper on options for funding the activities related to the infrastructure and the article 6 technical expe
 39. takes note of the estimated budgetary implic ations of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in this decision ; 40. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . fccc/pa/cma/20
he parties to the paris agre ement at its third session ; 2 7. adopts the rules of procedure of the supervisory body , contained in annex ii ; 8. requests the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice to continue its consideration of , and to develop , on the basis of the rules , mo da
st parties to elaborate on and apply national arrangements for the mechanism under the approval and supervision of the supervisory body ; 9. also requests the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice to continue its consideration of , and to develop , on the basis of the rules , modal
erver organizations to submit , via the submission portal,3 by 15 march 2023 , their views on the matters referred to in paragraph 9 a bove , and requests the secretariat to prepare a synthesis report on the submissions for consideration by the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice
ubmissions for consideration by the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice at its fifty -eighth session ( june 2023 ) ; 11. also requests the secretariat to organize a techni cal expert dialogue , to be held between the fifty -eighth and fifty -ninth ( november –december 2023 ) sess
 into account the sub missions and the synthesis report referred to in paragraph 10 above , ensuring broad participation of parties ; 12. further requests the secretariat to expedite the implementation of the capacity - building programme referred to in decision 3/cma.3 , paragraph 14 , within a tim
upervisory body will determine a specific level for each fee type , within the maximum level therei n , when developing procedures for processing requests in the activity cycle under the mechanism , with the intention to set the fee levels low where appropriate ; 15. further notes that , for the mon
negative environmental and social impacts , in addition to the activities referred to in chapter v of the rules , modalities and procedures ; 20. requests the supervisory body to consider the views of parties and observers in elaborating and further developing recommendations on activities involving
ration and adoption by the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at its fifth session ; 21. also requests the supervisory body to elaborate and further develop recommendations , on the basis of the rules , modalities and procedures , for consideration
sion , on the application of the requirements referred to in chapter v.b ( methodologies ) of the rules , modalities and procedures ; 22. further requests the supervisory body , while developing the recommendations referred to in paragraphs 20 –21 above , to consider broad er inputs from stakeholder
referred to in paragraphs 20 –21 above , to consider broad er inputs from stakeholders provided in a structured public consultation process ; 23. requests the supervisory body to facilitate the tasks related to the transition of clean development mechanism activities to the mechanism by:6 ( a ) deve
ated budget for its work , as outlined in its workplan for 2023 , and other activities deemed essential for o perationalizing the mechanism ; 26. requests the supervisory body to reinforce its support structure and allocate dedicated resources to support the work of the supervisory body ; 27. also r
s the supervisory body to reinforce its support structure and allocate dedicated resources to support the work of the supervisory body ; 27. also requests the secretariat to take necessary steps to establish a separate trus t fund for the receipt of the shares of proceeds to cover administrative exp
6 28. takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in this decision ; 29. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . fccc/pa/cma/20
ectively . b. activity design 6. the activity types of registered cdm project activi ties and poas and the cpas therein , as well as those in the requests for registration , renewal and issuance listed as provisional ( provisional requests ) under the temporary measures adopted by the executive boar
ties and poas and the cpas therein , as well as those in the requests for registration , renewal and issuance listed as provisional ( provisional requests ) under the temporary measures adopted by the executive board of the cdm at its 108th meeting ( temporary measures ) , that transition to the art
approval to the supervisory body by no later than 31 december 2025 in accordance with the procedure to be developed by the supervisory body . 13. requests for transition and host party approvals of provisional requests under the tempo rary measures and other participating party approvals of activity
25 in accordance with the procedure to be developed by the supervisory body . 13. requests for transition and host party approvals of provisional requests under the tempo rary measures and other participating party approvals of activity participants shall be submitted in accordance with paragraphs 1
s and other participating party approvals of activity participants shall be submitted in accordance with paragraphs 11‒12 above , as applicable . requests for transition of provisional requests for renewal and issuance under the temporary measure s shall be processed only after the respective underl
ls of activity participants shall be submitted in accordance with paragraphs 11‒12 above , as applicable . requests for transition of provisional requests for renewal and issuance under the temporary measure s shall be processed only after the respective underlying cdm activities have successfully t
easure s shall be processed only after the respective underlying cdm activities have successfully transitioned to the article 6.4 mechanism . 14. requests for transition of cdm activities and provisional requests under the temporary measures submitted to the secretari at shall be subject to the shar
rlying cdm activities have successfully transitioned to the article 6.4 mechanism . 14. requests for transition of cdm activities and provisional requests under the temporary measures submitted to the secretari at shall be subject to the share of proceeds to cover administrative expenses and/or the 
the adverse effects of climate change to meet the costs of adaptation applic able under the article 6.4 mechanism in the following manner : ( a ) requests for transition of cdm activities are subject to the share of proceeds applicable to requests for registration under the article 6.4 mechanism ; (
rticle 6.4 mechanism in the following manner : ( a ) requests for transition of cdm activities are subject to the share of proceeds applicable to requests for registration under the article 6.4 mechanism ; ( b ) provisional requests for registration unde r the temporary measures are subject to the s
f cdm activities are subject to the share of proceeds applicable to requests for registration under the article 6.4 mechanism ; ( b ) provisional requests for registration unde r the temporary measures are subject to the share of proceeds applicable to requests for registration under the article 6.4
icle 6.4 mechanism ; ( b ) provisional requests for registration unde r the temporary measures are subject to the share of proceeds applicable to requests for registration under the article 6.4 mechanism ; ( c ) provisional inclusion of cpas under the temporary measures are subject to the share of p
res are subject to the share of proceeds applicable to inclusion o f cpas in a registered poa under the article 6.4 mechanism ; ( d ) provisional requests for renewal under the temporary measures are subject to the share of proceeds applicable to requests for renewal under the article 6.4 mechanism 
he article 6.4 mechanism ; ( d ) provisional requests for renewal under the temporary measures are subject to the share of proceeds applicable to requests for renewal under the article 6.4 mechanism ; fccc/pa/cma/2022/ 10/add.2 39 ( e ) provisional requests for issu ance under the temporary measures
ect to the share of proceeds applicable to requests for renewal under the article 6.4 mechanism ; fccc/pa/cma/2022/ 10/add.2 39 ( e ) provisional requests for issu ance under the temporary measures are subject to the share of proceeds applicable to requests for issuance under the article 6.4 mechani
pa/cma/2022/ 10/add.2 39 ( e ) provisional requests for issu ance under the temporary measures are subject to the share of proceeds applicable to requests for issuance under the article 6.4 mechanism . 15. for requests for transition of cdm activities and provisional requests under the temporary mea
e under the temporary measures are subject to the share of proceeds applicable to requests for issuance under the article 6.4 mechanism . 15. for requests for transition of cdm activities and provisional requests under the temporary measures that are approve d by the supervisory body , the effective
 proceeds applicable to requests for issuance under the article 6.4 mechanism . 15. for requests for transition of cdm activities and provisional requests under the temporary measures that are approve d by the supervisory body , the effective date of transition may be deemed as 1 january 2021 at the
supervisory body , the effective date of transition may be deemed as 1 january 2021 at the earliest , irrespective of the date of approval of the requests by the supervisory body . 16. once the transition is approved by the supervisory body , the activities and requests are subject to all relevant r
f the date of approval of the requests by the supervisory body . 16. once the transition is approved by the supervisory body , the activities and requests are subject to all relevant requirements under the article 6.4 mechanism at all subsequent steps in the mechanism ’ s activity cycle , taking int
 of the paris agreement and in decision 4/cma.3 for 2023 –2024 and the schedule for implementing the activities for 2025 –2026 set out below ; 3. requests the glasgow committee on non -market approaches to continue implementing the work programme activities referred to in chapter v of the annex to d
 recognizing that some elem ents can be implemented earlier in the first phase , with priority given to existing non -market approaches ; 4. also requests the glasgow committee on non -market approaches to undertake an expedited and simple assessment of the progress and outcomes of the firs t phase 
ixty -fifth ( 2026 ) sessions in accordance with paragraph 10 of decision 4/cma.3 ; ii . unfccc web -based platform for non -market approaches 5. requests the secretariat to develop and operationalize the unfccc web -based platform referred to in paragraph 8 ( b ) ( i ) of the annex to decision 4/cm
 neither creates any rights or obligations for any party or other entity nor represents endorsement or approval of the non -market approach ; 10. requests the secretariat , subject to the availability of resources , to facilitate opportunities for participating parties to identify , develop and impl
d to in paragraph 10 ( a ) above , and include a function for searching information o n non-market approaches , including by keyword or tag ; 12. requests the secretariat to provide regular updates on the status of the development and operationalization of the unfccc web -based platform for each mee
 enable more detailed discussions among interested parties on specific topics identified by the glasgow committee on non -market approaches ; 18. requests the chair of the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice , as the convenor of the glasgow committee on non -market approaches , t
the paris agreement and/or the convention , as necessary , taking into account their respective mandates ; fccc/pa/cma/2022/ 10/add.2 58 19. also requests the secretariat to prepare a technical paper , without formal status , for consideration by the glasgow committee on non -market approaches at it
ivil society organizations to actively engage in developing and implementing non -market approaches under the framework for such approaches ; 21. requests the secretariat to include as part of its broader capacity -building programme related to article 6 of the paris agreement activities related to 
; 22. takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in this decision ; 23. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 10th plenary m
iew should be presented in a dedicated annex to the techni cal expert review report referred to in decision 18/cma.1 , annex , paragraph 187 ; 6. requests the secretariat to include in the technical expert review team for conducting the voluntary review an expert with expertise in the areas outlined
cal experts with expertise and experience in the areas outlin ed in decision 18/cma.1 , annex , chapter iv , to the unfccc roster of experts ; 8. requests the secretariat to develop and implement a training course for experts participating in the review referred to in paragraph 1 above , incorporati
 part of the training programme outlined in decision 5/cma.3 , annex vii , and taking into account decision 5/cma.3 , paragraphs 33 –34 ; 9. also requests the secretariat to report on progress in developing the training course referred to in paragraph 8 above to the subsidiary body for scientific an
 note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 1 and 8 above ; 13. requests that the acti ons of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 9th plenary m
governmental panel on climate change with regard to its work in relation to decisions 9/cma.1 , paragraph 15 , and 11/cma.1 , paragraph 17 , an d requests the adaptation committee to further engage with the intergovernmental panel on climate change on technical and substantive work ; 4. notes that c
for a term of two years ; 13. also decides that the members of the advisory board shall remain in office until their successors are elected ; 14. requests the advisory board to develop draft rules of procedure5 with a view to recommending them to the governing body or bodies through the subsidiary b
s through the subsidiary bodies for consideration and adoption at the sixty -first sessions of the subsidiary bodies ( november 2024 ) ; 15. also requests the secretariat to continue providing support for developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change 
f organizations , bodies , networks and experts as members of the santiago network ; ( b ) developing guidelines and procedures for responding to requests for technical assistance , including considering the developme nt of procedures for those that require an urgent response ; ( c ) developing guid
and neutral manner in accordance with the process outlined in paragraphs 19 –23 below , informed by united na tions practices and standards ; 19. requests the secretariat , under the guidance of the chairs of the subsidiary bodies , to : ( a ) prepare and issue a call for proposals to host the santi
ncluding in particular the adaptation committee and the facilitative working group of the local communities and indigenous peoples platform ; 22. requests the evaluation panel to prepare an evaluation report with a shortli st of up to three proposals that meet the criteria referred to in annex ii , 
s , and make the evaluation report available for consideration by the subsidiary bodies at th eir fifty -eighth sessions ( june 2023 ) ; 23. also requests the subsidiary bodies to recommend at their fifty -eighth sessions a draft decision with one proposal to host the santiago network secretariat th
nex ii for consider ation and adoption by the governing body or bodies at their session ( s ) to be held in november –december 2023 ; 24. further requests the secretariat , under the guidance of the chairs of the subsidiary bodies , to develop a draft host agreement ( memorandum of under standing ) 
 29. takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in this dec ision ; 30. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . fccc/pa/cma/20
ttee , as well as exploring synergies with other initiatives and networks ; ( c ) receiving , assessing and managing the process of responding to requests from developing countr ies that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change for technical assistance to avert , minimize
ctivities of the santiago network secretariat and network and on the performance of their respective functions , including information on : ( a ) requests received and activities carried out by the santiago network and their outcomes ; ( b ) responses to requests ; ( c ) ongoing work as well as less
s , including information on : ( a ) requests received and activities carried out by the santiago network and their outcomes ; ( b ) responses to requests ; ( c ) ongoing work as well as lessons learned and best practices derived from that work ; ( d ) support delivered in regions , finance disburse
e santiago network , including , inter alia , sustainability and sources of funding , adequacy of funding levels relative to technical assistance requests , timeliness , effectiveness , engagement , gender -responsiveness and deliver y of technical assistance to communities particularly vulnerable t
dverse effects of climate change ; 3. encourages the organizations and experts to continue to contribute as referred to in paragraph 2 above ; 4. requests the executive committee to continue : ( a ) exploring further opportunities and modalities for eng aging national stakeholders , including loss a
) collaborating and enhancing synergies with programmes , bodies and platforms under and outside the convention and the paris agreement ; 5. also requests the executi ve committee , with regard to information relating to averting , minimizing and addressing loss and damage , to continue collaboratin
pport to de veloping country parties for enhancing their institutional and technical capacity to prepare and submit national reports ; 6. further requests the secretariat , in responding to paragraph 11 of decision 19/cma.3 , and endorsed in decision 17/cp.26 , to make publi c the requests it receiv
. further requests the secretariat , in responding to paragraph 11 of decision 19/cma.3 , and endorsed in decision 17/cp.26 , to make publi c the requests it receives for technical assistance and to more actively communicate information on technical assistance available and the ways in which countri
akes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 1 –6 above ; 9. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 10th plenary m
of available information relevant to article 2 , paragraph 1 ( c ) , of the paris agreement , including its reference to article 9 thereof ; 2 4. requests the standing committee on finance to continue its work regarding ways to achieve article 2 , paragraph 1 ( c ) , of the paris agreement , includi
and invites parties and stakeholders in the financial sector to make further submissions thereon via the submission portal3 by 30 april 2023 ; 5. requests the standing committee on finance to report to the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the par ties to the paris agreement at its
 serving as the meeting of the par ties to the paris agreement at its fifth session on progress in implementing its workplan for 2023 ; 4 6. also requests the standing committee on finance to consider the guidance provided to it in other relevant decisions of the conference of the parties servi ng a
set by the paris agreement to combat climate change and adapt ing to its impacts while taking into account the needs of developing countries ; 4. requests the board to increase its support to developing countries in order to guide and enable green climate fund programming to promote a paradigm shift
 as joint mitigation and adaptation approaches for the integral and sustainable management of forests , in accordance with decision 16/cp.21 ; 7. requests the board to consider how to enhance support for just transitions of developing countries across economic sectors and transition to resilient eco
 allocation of resources country allocation for developing and revising technology needs assessment s and action plans and implementing them ; 5. requests the global environment facility to improve working with its implementing agencies in order to expedite the project preparation and submission pro
ting systems withi n their respective national 1 in accordance with decision 1/cp.21 , para . 61. fccc/pa/cma/2022/ 10/add.3 20 governments , and requests the global environment facility to consult with developing country parties on how the support provided to them by the facility for preparing thei
 access resources from the adaptation fund and welcomes the amended strategic priorities , policies and guidelines of the adaptation fund ; 9 12. requests the adaptation fund board , in line with its existing mandate and decisions 1/cmp.3 and 1/cm p.4 , to consider and provide an update on its activ
adaptation fund b oard document afb/b.39/9/add.2 . 9 see adaptation fund board document afb/b.39/9/add.1 . fccc/pa/cma/2022/ 10/add.3 24 13. also requests the adaptation fund board to include in its annual report to the conference of the parties se rving as the meeting of the parties to the paris ag
ision 3/cmp.16 , paragraph 7 , which confirms that parties to the paris agreem ent are eligible for membership on the adaptation fund board ; 18. requests the subsidiary body for implementation to continue consideration of matters relating to membership of the adaptation fund board at its fifty -eig
reemen t , including in the private sector , with a view to facilitating the implementation of all activities under the joint work programme ; 6. requests the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network to include information in their j oint annual reports to the con
veloping countries to prepare project proposals and facilitating their access to available funding for techn ology development and transfer ; 10. requests the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network to continue to enhance their efforts to monitor and evaluate the
ology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network responded to mandates of parties in the im plementation of their work and requests the two bodies to include such information in their joint annual reports ; 13. encourages the secretariats supporting the technology executive co
re and network to collaborate closely , including on resource mobilization , to ensure effective implementation of the joint work programme ; 14. requests the secretariat to ensure that the relevant activities of the unfccc global innovation hub contribute to supporting the implementation of the joi
ma.3 , para . 13. fccc/pa/cma/2022/ 10/add.3 27 20. welcomes the launch of the partnership and liaison office in songdo , republic of korea , and requests the climate technology centre and network to include information on experience in and lessons learned from the operation of its partnership and l
forts of the climate technology centre and network to mobilize a diverse range of resources , including pro bono and in -kind contributions , and requests the climate technology centre and network to finalize and implement a resource mobilization and partnership strategy and to include information t
 and network to implement the recommendations therein when undertaking the joint work programme of the technology mechanism for 2023 –2027 ; 2 2. requests the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network to include in their joint annual report for 2023 and in subseque
at the main challenges identified in the periodic assessment referred to in paragraph 1 above be given consideration in the global stocktake ; 9. requests the secretariat to consider experience in and lessons learned from undertaking the first periodic assessment in preparing for the second periodic
of pilot and demonstration projects in identifying local champions who could showcase the successful implementation of technology solutions ; 11. requests the subsidiary body for implementati on to initiate at its sixty -fourth session ( 2026 ) the second periodic assessment of the effectiveness and
ts ; 3 4. invites parties , observer organizations and stakeholders to implement the recommendations in sections i –vi below , as applicable ; 5. requests the forum and its katowice committee on impacts and the secretariat to implement the recommendations in sections i –vi below , as applicable ; 6.
idterm r eview of the workplan of the forum could not be concluded at these sessions , takes note of the informal note on the midterm review4 and requests the forum to continue the midterm review at the fifty -eighth sessions of the subsidiary bodies ( june 2023 ) ; 1 document kci/2019/2/4 . 2 docum
ubmit views on efforts related to addressing the social and economic impacts of response measures via the submission portal5 by february 2023 and requests the secretariat to prepare and submit the compilation of the submissions from t he parties as input to the global stocktake ; 12. also requests t
d requests the secretariat to prepare and submit the compilation of the submissions from t he parties as input to the global stocktake ; 12. also requests the secretariat to organize a regional workshop on activity 3 of the workplan by the fifty -ninth sessions of the subsidiary bodies ( november –d
 estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat re ferred to in paragraphs 3 , 11 , 12 and 13 above ; 15. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources ; i. lessons lea
 right prior to undertaking economic diversification , noting that , as countries develop , multiple diversification paths become available ; 19. requests the secretariat , w hile noting that national circumstances differ , to conduct peer-to-peer learning , where possible , to facilitate planning a
nse measures ; ( d ) consider both qualitative and quantitative methods for assessing the impact of the implementation of response measures ; 21. requests the forum and its katowice committee o n impacts to : ( a ) facilitate the enhancement of the capacity of parties , in particular developing coun
domestic alike , as well as ways in which the international community could fa cilitate the sustainable economic development of all parties ; 24. requests prioritization of the developing and sharing of case studies by parties and experts , in particular on developing country parties , on both just 
ing where the co-benefits come from and who the beneficiaries of the co -benefits are , with a view to informing integrated climate actions ; 33. requests the katowice committee on impacts to enhance the capacity of parties , in particular developing country parties , to develop and use country -spe
taken on a case -by-case basis , at any time before or during a meeting . 2. the secretariat shall inform the committee before the meeting of any requests to attend the meeting received from non -party observers admitted to the unfccc process . 3. admitted non -party observers shall abide by the gui
n the progress made in implementing the action plan referred to in paragraph 30 ( d ) above. ” xxiii . rule 23 : systemic issues 1. where the cma requests the committee to examine issues of a systemic nature , the committee shall initiate consideration of such issues at its next meeting unless other
tati on of adaptation actions and priorities ; 9. urges parties to further integrate adaptation into local , national and regional planning ; 10. requests parties that have not yet done so to submit their adaptation communications in accordance with decision 9/cma.1 ahead of the fourth session of th
ris agreement ; 27. decides to establish a work programme to urgently scale up mitigation ambition and implementation in this critical decade and requests the subsidiary body for implementation and the subsidiary body for s cientific and technological advice to recommend a draft decision on this mat
he meeting of the parties to the paris agreement ; 29. recalls article 3 and article 4 , paragraphs 3 , 4 , 5 and 11 , of the paris agreement and requests parties to revisit and strengthen the 2030 targets in their nationally determined contributions as necessary to align with the paris agreem ent t
ecessary to align with the paris agreem ent temperature goal by the end of 2022 , taking into account different national circumstances ; 30. also requests the secretariat to annually update the synthesis report on nationally determined contributions under the paris agreement , referred to in decisio
tes parties to update the strategies referred to in paragraph 32 above regularly , as appropriate , in line with the best available science ; 34. requests the secretariat to prepare a synthesis report on long -term low greenhous e gas emission development strategies referred to in article 4 , paragr
 place each year at the first session of the subsidiary body for implementation until it is concluded at its sixtieth session ( june 2024 ) ; 74. requests the subsidiary body for implementation to organize the glasgow dialogue in cooperation with the executive committee of the warsaw international m
; 96. takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in this decision ; 97. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of fi nancial resources . 12 th plenary
 and support referred to in article 13 of the paris agreement ) , including the information to be reported as per paragraph 77 ( d ) ( iii ) ; 3. requests the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice to undertake the following work , on the basis of the guidance in the annex , to deve
les and outlines for the information required pursuant to chapter iv of the annex ( reporting ) by 31 march 2022 via the submission portal ; 2 5. requests the secretariat to organize a technical workshop , ensuring broad participation of parties , to develop options for the tables and outlines for t
ion and adoption by the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at its fourth session ; 7. further requests the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice to develop recommendations for guidelines for the reviews pursuant to chapter v of th
options for implementing the infrastructure requirements referred to in chapter vi of the annex ( recording and tracking ) by 31 ma rch 2022 ; 9. requests the secretariat to organize a technical workshop , ensuring broad participation of parties , to develop options for implementing the infrastructu
advice at its fifty -sixth session ; 2 https : //www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/pages/home.aspx . fccc/pa/cma/2021/10/add.1 13 10. also requests the s ubsidiary body for scientific and technological advice , on the basis of the submissions referred to in paragraph 8 above and taking into a
fourth session ; 11. affirms that the guidance will not infringe on the nationally determined nature of nationally determined contributions ; 12. requests the secretariat to design and , following consultation with parties , implement a capacity -building programme , including through its regional c
 and small island developing states in meet ing the participation requirements as set out in chapter ii of the annex ( participation ) ; 13. also requests the secretariat to prepare annually a compilation and synthesis of the results of the article 6 technical expert review , including identificatio
30 ) in order to coordinate the timing of the review with that of the review undertaken in accordance with paragraph 18 of decision 4/cma.1 ; 15. requests the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice to commence its work in 2028 to develop recommendations in relation to the review ref
nnex ( review ) ; ( e ) consideration of any need for safeguards and li mits in addition to those already operationalized through the annex ; 16. requests the secretariat to support the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures ( referred to in para . 33 of decision 1/cp.21 ) in
ted budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred t o in this decision ; fccc/pa/cma/2021/10/add.1 14 19. requests that the actions called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources ; 20. invites parties to make contr
 supervisory body pursuant to paragraph 9 of the annex ; 4. decides that at least two meetings of the supervisory body shall be held in 2022 ; 5. requests the supervisory body to : ( a ) develop provisions for the development and approval of methodologies , validation , registration , monitoring , v
e working group ; ( i ) consider the gender action plan and the incorporation of relevant actions into the work of the supervisory body ; 6. also requests the supervisory body to elaborate and further develop , on the basis of the rules , modalities and procedures contained in the annex , recommenda
aragraph 4 , a ctivity cycle ) ; ( d ) the application of the requirements referred to in chapter v.b of the annex ( methodologies ) ; 7. further requests the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice to develop , on the basis of the rules , modalities and procedures contained in the a
 global emissions ) ; ( h ) the consideration of whether activities could include emission avoidance and conservation enhancement activities ; 8. requests the supervisory body to evaluate the implementation of the share of proceeds set out in chapter vii of the annex ( levy of s hare of proceeds for
ures for the mechanism at its tenth session ( 2028 ) with a view to completing the review by no later than at its twelfth session ( 2 030 ) ; 11. requests the subsidiary body for scientific and technological a dvice to develop recommendations with respect to the review referred to in paragraph 10 ab
any recommendations of the supervisory body pursuant to paragraphs 8– 9 above ; ( b ) consideration of any need for further safeguards ; 12. also requests the supervisory body to support the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures ( referred to in para . 33 of decision 1/cp.21
col to the trust fund for supplementary activities for the purp ose of expediting implementation of the article 6 , paragraph 4 , mechanism ; 14. requests the secretariat , including through its regional collaboration cent res and in consultation with the supervisory body , to design and implement ,
8 15. takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in this decision ; 16. requests that the actions called for in this decision be underta ken subject to the availability of financial resources ; 17. invites parties to make cont
nt , as well as a holding account for each party and each public or private entity authorized per article 6 , paragraph 4 ( b ) , by a party that requests an account where that entity meets the requisite identification requirements developed by the supervisory body . the mechanism registry shall be 
and cdm programmes of activities undergo an expedited transition process in accordance with decisions of the supervisory body by prioritizing the requests to transition from such activities following the approval referred to in paragraph 73 ( b ) above . b. use of certified emission reduction s towa
 ; ( b ) mitigation measures to address climate change and contribute to sustainable development ; ( c ) development of clean energy sources ; 4. requests the glasgow committee on non-market approaches to develop and recommend a schedule for implementing the work programme activities referred to in 
elevant tools , including under the convention and the paris agreement ) ; ( d ) the schedule for implementing the work programme activities ; 7. requests the secretariat to prepare a synthesis report on th e matters referred to in paragraph 6 above for consideration by the glasgow committee on non-
in paragraph 6 above for consideration by the glasgow committee on non- market approaches at its 1 st meeting , to be held in june 2022 ; 8. also requests the secretariat to : ( a ) organize an in -session workshop , with the broad participation of relevant experts , on the matters referred to in pa
the report of the glasgow committee on non- market approaches and provide guidance on the framework and the work programme , as appropriate ; 10. requests the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice to review the work programme , including its activities , at its sixty -fourth ( june
 11. takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in t his decision ; 12. requests that the actions called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources ; 13. invites parties to make contr
aphs 25 and 32 , providing an e xplanation of how the specific flexibility provision has been applied in the corresponding documentation box ; 6. requests the secretariat to incorporate the formats and approaches referred to in paragraph 5 above into the reporting tools referred to in paragraph 8 be
at to incorporate the formats and approaches referred to in paragraph 5 above into the reporting tools referred to in paragraph 8 below ; 7. also requests the secretariat to incorporate the confidentiality approach referred to in paragraph 26 below into the reporting tools referred to in paragraph 8
 view to the final version of the tools being completed by june 2024 , su bject to the timely availability of sufficient financial resources ; 9. requests the secretariat to inform the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice on progress in the development of the reporting tools at it
 inputs on improv ing the tools at the latest six months after the release of the test version via the submission portal by december 2023 ; 1 11. requests the secretariat to produce a technical paper on these submissions , includ ing an assessment of the experience of parties with using the test ver
021/10/add.2 4 facilitate an interactive exercise with experts from parties that demonstrate s the functions of the reporting tools ; 13. further requests the secretariat to prepare a report on how the input s of parties on the test version of the reporting tools have been considered in the final ve
esent this to the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice at the next session following finalization of the reporting tools ; 14. requests the secretariat , once the final version of the reporting tools is released , to organize regular technical training workshops ( online and/or in
haring of experience among party experts in using the reporting tools and integrating the m into their national inventory arrangements ; 15. also requests the secretariat to develop user manuals for the reporting tools ; 16. further requests the secretariat to provide training and advice to developi
he m into their national inventory arrangements ; 15. also requests the secretariat to develop user manuals for the reporting tools ; 16. further requests the secretariat to provide training and advice to developing country parties on the use of the reporting tools and to provide technical support t
submit the commo n tabular formats after 31 december 2024 , with a delay not exceeding the delay in the availability of the reporting tools ; 19. requests the secretariat to facilitate interoperability between the reporting tools and the intergovernmental panel on climate change inventory software ;
e linkages of the software with the reporting tool for the electronic reporting of common reporting tables referred to in paragraph 8 above ; 22. requests the secretariat to establish an interactive web portal to facilitate the availability of information , by parameter and by year , reported by par
y year , reported by parties in their biennial transparency reports in accordance with decision 18/cma.1 , annex , paragraphs 118 –145 ; 23. also requests the secretariat to make the web portal referred to in paragraph 22 above available from december 2025 ; 24. emphasizes that each interested party
ry basis the intergovernmental panel on climate change 2019 refinement to the 2006 ipcc guidelines for national greenhouse gas invent ories ; 29. requests the secretariat to undertake a mapping exercise of the categories in the 2006 ipcc guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories and those i
ferences in category names and to make the finding s of this mapping exercise available to national greenhouse gas inventory compilers ; 30. also requests the secretariat , incorporating , as appropriate , technical advice from the consultative group of experts and lead reviewers , to develop the tr
ariat on the implementation of training for technical experts participating in the technical expert review of biennial transparency reports ; 32. requests the secretariat to report to the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice on progress in the development of the training programme
1 , annex , paragraph 150 , available by september 2023 , and subject to the tim ely availability of sufficient financial resources ; 34. further requests the secretariat to promote geographical and gender balance among the technical review experts participating in the training programme referred to
e important role that review of the information could play in improving the reporting of th e information referred to in paragraph 35 above ; 38. requests the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice to consider at its fifty -sixth session ( june 2022 ) the options for conducting revi
tary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 8 , 11 –16 , 19 , 21 –22 and 29 –31 above ; 50. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 1 . 2 https : 
ee , work ing group ii of the intergovernmental panel on climate change , as appropriate , and other relevant constituted bodies and experts ; 6. requests the secretariat to support the implementation of the work programme ; 7. decides that the objectives of the work programme should be to , inter a
dies to select themes for the workshops referred to in paragraph 12 above on the basis of the submissions referred to in paragraph 13 above ; 15. requests the secretariat to prepare , under the guidance of the chairs of the subsidiary bodies , a compilation and synthesis of those submissions for con
 guidance of the chairs of the subsidiary bodies , a compilation and synthesis of those submissions for consideration at the workshops ; 16. also requests the secretariat to prepare , under the guidance of the chairs of the subsidiary bodies , a single annual report on the workshops for consideratio
e estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 6 , 12 , 15 and 16 above ; 20. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 12th plenary m
cs disaggregated by gender and region on its awareness -raising , outreach and informati on- sharing efforts such as events and publications ; 5. requests the adaptation committee to resume holding its regular meetings and events in person while offering the option of virtual attendance to ensure in
ttendance to ensure inclusive participation , including by observers , while acknowledging the challenges posed by online participation ; 6. also requests the adaptation committee , with the engagement of working group ii of the intergovernmental panel on climate change , as appropriate , to expedit
he meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at its third , fourth ( november 2022 ) and fifth ( november 2023 ) sessions , respectively ; 4. requests the co -chairs of the ad hoc work programme to maintain regular consultations with the constituted bodies , in particular the standing committee 
e two remaining dialogues to be organized in separate regions with a view to facilitating inclusive and balanced geographic al participation ; 6. requests the co -chairs of the ad hoc work programme to organiz e the technical expert dialogues referred to in paragraph 5 above on the basis of the subm
ns referred to in paragraphs 17–18 below , and to allow sufficient time for the technical expert dialogues to make substantive progress ; 7. also requests the co -chairs of the ad hoc work programme to initiate preparations for organiz ing the technical expert dialogue s referred to in paragraph 5 a
technical expert dialogue s referred to in paragraph 5 above taking into consideration the matters referred to in paragraph 16 below ; 8. further requests the secretariat , in organizing the technical expert dialogues referred to in paragraph 5 above , to ensure the participation of all interested p
s , academia , civil societ y actors , including youth , and private sector actors , and that all meetings are open to observers and webcast ; 9. requests the co -chairs of the ad hoc work programme to prepare a n annual report on the work conducted under that work programme , including a summ ary a
 in paragraphs 17–18 below , with a view to providing guidance on the further direction of the ad hoc work programme for the following year ; 11. requests the presiden t of the conference of the parties to prepare a summary of the deliberations at the high -level ministerial dialogues referred to in
invites the presiden t of the conference of the parties to ensure the coherence and complementarity of the high-level ministerial dialogues ; 14. requests the secretariat to assist the co -chairs of the ad hoc work programme in implementing it ; 15. decides that the new collec tive quantified goal a
graph 1 5 above and on the elements referred to in paragraph 1 6 above via the submission portal 1 by february and august 2022 respectively ; 18. requests the secretariat to prepare a technical paper on the submissions referred to in paragraph 17 above ; 19. agrees that the deliberations shall be in
te of the estimated budgetary implicat ions of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 14 and 18 above ; 21. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources ; 22. decides to
rticle 2 , paragraph 1 ( c ) , of the paris agreement , including options for approaches and guidelines for implementation , by 30 april 2022 and requests the standing committee on finance to submit a synthesis for consideration by the c onference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties
or consideration by the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at its fourth session ; 4. further requests the standing committee on finance to report to the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at its 
e parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at its fourth session on progress in implementing its 2022 workplan ; 3 5. requests the standing committee on finance to consider the guidance provided to it in other relevant decisions of the conference of the parties serving as
ncial flows with countries ’ climate plans and strategies consistent with a pathway towards low -emission and climate -resilient development ; 6. requests the board to continue to enhance support for mitigation proposals , in line with the governing instrument and investment framework , that support
nizes the board ’ s efforts during that pe riod and encourages the board to continue to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of its work ; 8. requests the board to continue to enhance support for the implementation of adaptation projects and programmes , in line with the governing instrument , i
environment facility , parties and implementing agencies to work collaboratively to ensure that this support is delivered in a timely manner ; 5. requests the global environment facility to continue to facilitate improved access to the capacity -building initiative for transparency by developing cou
onsider increasing its support for implementation of the enhanced transparency framework as part of its eighth replenishment process ; 7. further requests the global environment facility to contribute to the consideration of the support provided to developing country parties referred to in decision 
ject identification form approval to submission of chief executive officer approval request and disbursement through implementing agencies ) ; 8. requests the global environment facility to consider combining the application processes for support for producing biennial transparency reports , includi
 is delivered in a timely manner , including by utilizing the bundled application modality and expedited procedures for enabling activities , and requests the global environment facility to monitor the timeliness of project review , approval and preparation , including disaggregated tracking of each
ing as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol to request the adaptation fund board to amend the relevant procedures and modalities ; 9. requests the adaptation fund board to provide a n update on its progress in assisting developing countr y parties in meet ing their adaptation commitments
ions in order to support the resource mobilization efforts of the adaptation f und board with a view to strengthening the adaptation fund ; 5 11. requests the adaptation fund board , in line with its existing mandate and decisions 1/cmp.3 and 1/cmp.4 , to consider and provide an update on its activi
sis reports referred to in paragraphs 6 above and 16 below and the summary report referred in paragraph 8 above , including lessons learned ; 11. requests the secretariat to organize the workshop referred to in paragraph 9 above and prepare a summary report on the workshop for consideration by the c
n by the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at its fifth session ( november 2023 ) ; 12. also requests developed country parties to submit their second biennial communications in 2022 , in accordance with decision 12/cma.1 , paragraph 4 , before 31
n referred to in paragraph 2 above on a voluntary basis ; 4 fccc/pa/cma/2021/5 . 5 decision 12/cma.1 , para . 8. fccc/pa/cma/2021/10/add.3 21 16. requests the secretariat to prepare a compilation and synthesis of the biennial communications in accordance with decision 12/cma.1 , paragraph 7 ; 17. we
ote of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 11 and 16 above ; 19. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resource s. 12th plenary m
e and network to adapt to operational challenges resulting from the continuing pandemic by focusing on the implementation of technical assistance requests and making use of online stakeholder engagement and capacity -building activities ; 15. takes note of the activities , performance and key messag
periodicity of the periodic assessment of the technology mechanism and the independent review of the c limate technology centre and n etwork ; 7. requests the subsidiary body for implementation to initiate , at its sixty -second session ( 2025 ) , consideration of matters relating to the alignment b
th the scope and modalities contained in the annex to decision 16/cma.1 with a view to completing it at its fourth session ( november 2022 ) ; 2. requests the secretariat to prepare an interim report on the effectiveness and adequacy of the support provided to the technology mechanism in supporting 
ing recommendations for consideration and adoption by the governing body at its next session or the governing bodies at their next sessions ; 11. requests the secretariat to continue providing support for developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change 
0 14. takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in this decision ; 15. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial res ources . 12th plenary 
cedures contained in decision 5/cma.1 and will serve as the public registry referred to in article 4 , paragraph 12 , of the paris agreement ; 3. requests the secretariat to adopt the prototype as the public registry and finalize its implementation , verify with parties the name of the party , docum
- governmental organizations in a position to do so to provide technical or financial support for action for climate empowerment activities ; 10. requests the secretariat to promote partnerships with other organizations , the private sector and donors in order to support implementation of the glasgo
partnerships with other organizations , the private sector and donors in order to support implementation of the glasgow work programme ; 11. also requests the subsidiary body for implementation to : ( a ) facilitate implementation of the glasgow work programme under the guidance of its chair , subje
d modalities of the forum and of certain activities in the workplan by the forum , including due to the exceptional circumstances , and therefore requests the secretariat to hold a two -day w orkshop in conjunction with the fifty -sixth sessions of the subsidiary bodies ( june 2022 ) to further adva
nsider way s to promote actions to minimize the adverse impacts and maximize the positive impacts of the implementation of response measures ; 8. requests the forum , at the fifty -sixth sessions of the subsidiary bodies , to consider ways to promote actions to minimize the adverse impacts and maxim
and-events . 3 contained in annex ii to decisions 4/cp.25 , 4/cmp.15 and 4/cma.2 . 4 decision 4/cma.2 , annex i. fccc/pa/cma/2021/10/add.3 45 10. requests the secretariat to organize a regional workshop on activity 3 of the workplan before the fifty -sixth sessions of the subsidiary bodies in collab
on portal5 by april 2022 their views on the elements of the midterm review of the workplan of the forum and its katowice committee on impacts and requests the secretariat to prepare a summary o f the submissions with a view to informing parties ’ discussion on the midterm review starting at the fift
fforts related to addressing the social and economic consequences and impacts of response measures via the submission portal by february 2022 and requests the secretariat to prepare and submit a compilation of the submissi ons from parties as input to the first global stocktake ; 13. also requests ,
d requests the secretariat to prepare and submit a compilation of the submissi ons from parties as input to the first global stocktake ; 13. also requests , recalling decisions 19/cma.1 and 4/cma.2 , the katowice committee on impacts to submit by february 2022 , with the assistance of the secretaria
 estimated budgetary im plications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 3 , 11 , 12 and 13 above ; 15. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 5 https : //ww
e taken on a case- by-case basis at any time before or during a meeting . 2. the secretariat shall inform the committee before the meeting of any requests to attend the meeting received from non -party observers admitted to the unfccc process . 3. admitted non -party observers shall abide by the gui
uring the reporting period , and the accreditation of 5 regional implementing entities , includi ng 1 accredited during the reporting period ; 5. requests the adaptation fund board to continue its efforts to simplify accreditation procedures for national implementing entities and to report back on i
; 10. notes with appreciation the efforts of the adaptation fund board secretariat to organize workshops for national implementing entities ; 11. requests the adaptation fund board to provide in its reports to the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the par ties to the kyoto protocol
of inventories under article 8 of the kyoto protocol to the review of information on assigned amounts under article 8 of the kyoto protocol ; 19. requests the administrator of the international transaction log to develop an application to facilitate the submission of the standard electroni c format 
licable to the parties included in annex i without quantified emission limitation and reduction commitments for the second commitment period ; 7. requests the secretariat , in view of the revision of the “ guidelines for review under article 8 of the kyoto protocol ” , to modify the relevant informa
r article 8 of the kyoto protocol , which builds on the training pro gramme for greenhouse gas inventory review experts under the convention , 1. requests the secretariat to update and implement the courses on national systems , application of adjustments , modalities for the accounting of assigned 
s , ensuring that the courses incorporate the rules and modalities applicable to the second commitment period under the kyoto protoc ol ; 2. also requests the secretariat to develop and implement the courses referred to in paragraph 1 above , if possible in time for the first inventory review of the
rity for the developme nt of the course related to review of activities under article 3 , paragraphs 3 and 4 , of the kyoto protocol ; 3. further requests the secretariat to continue the current practice of including , in its annual report on the technical review of greenhouse gas inve ntories repor
5. takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in paragraph 1 above ; 6. requests that t he actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . fccc/kp/cmp/2
y sustainable development tool ; 4. welcomes the launch of the online platform for voluntary cancellation of certified emission reductions ; 3 5. requests the executive board and the secretariat to facilitate access to the section concerning sustainabl e development in the project and programme desi
xecutive board to carry out the sector -specific validation functions and/or sector -specific verification functions described in the annex ; 11. requests the executive board to analyse the need for measures to ensure the continued participation of designated operational entities in the clean develo
 cases where the executive board considers that the assessment of such a request can be conducted without the project -specific information ; 13. requests the executive board to implement paragraph 12 above by revising the relevant regulations ; 14. encourages the executive board to continue the dev
t of digitized project and programme design d ocument forms for clean development mechanism project activities and programmes of activities ; 15. requests the executive board to develop more cost -effective and context - appropriate approaches for monitoring , reporting and verification with a focus
ronmental integrity and additionality ; iv . registration of project activities and programmes and issuance of c ertified emission reductions 18. requests the executive board to develop stand -alone programme of activit ies guidance , consisting , inter alia , of a “ clean development mechanism prog
oject activities carried out d irectly by the coordinating/managing entity without prior validation through a designated operational entity ; 20. requests the executive board to consider developing a standardized registration template using objective criteria for activities that qualify as a utomati
blic ; 22. also encourages the execu tive board to improve the user -friendliness of the existing sustainable development co -benefits tool ; 23. requests designated operational entit ies to confirm that request s for issuance of emission reductions are submitted only to the executive board ; 24. al
signated operational entit ies to confirm that request s for issuance of emission reductions are submitted only to the executive board ; 24. also requests the executive board to examine how the information specified in paragraph 12 of appendix d to decision 3/cmp.1 can be best made publicly availabl
e clean development mechanism in r egions underrepresented in the mechanism and to support stakeholders at the regional and national levels ; 26. requests the executive board to expand , taking into account paragraph 28 below , the scope and scale of regional collaboration centres ’ assistance acti 
esources and deep gratitude to the staff that have left the secretariat for their enormous contribution to the clean d evelopment mechanism ; 28. requests the executive board to ensure the transparent and prudent management of the resources of the clean development mechanism , including the spending
rrently faced by participants in joint impleme ntation , with projects declining to a point where the mechanism is practically non -existent ; 4. requests the joint implementation supervisory committee to submit recommendations for consideration by the subsidiary body for implementation at its forty
ragraph 15. available at < http : //ji.unfccc.int/sup_committee/meetings/index.html > . 6 fccc/sbi/2015/l.30 . fccc/kp/cmp/2015/8/add.2 8 5. also requests the joint implementation supervisory committee to submit recommendations for consider ation by the subsidiary body for implementation at its fort
 lessons learned from joint implementation for the possible design of mitigation mechanisms and on links and interactions with other tools ; 7 7. requests the joint implementation supervisory committee to reflect on synergies between joint implementation and other mitigation mechanisms to ensure the
ce of double counting , in particular regarding infrastructure and technical arrangements , tools , governance structures and processes ; 8. also requests the joint implementation supervisory committee to prepare an analysis of the experiences and lessons learned referred to in paragraph 6 above , t
g for the biennium 2016 –2017 , with the fees for the first year of the biennium being equal to the fees for the second year of the biennium ; 3. requests the executive secretary to notify parties connected to the international transaction log in the biennium 2016 –2017 of the annual fees , calculat
from previous financial periods to cover the potential shortfall in fees due to the disconnection of parties during the biennium 2016 –2017 ; 10. requests the international transaction log administrator to provide , in its annual reports for 2 016 and 2017 , information on transactions of kyoto prot
nsaction log administrator to provide , in its annual reports for 2 016 and 2017 , information on transactions of kyoto protocol units ; 11. also requests the international transaction log administrator to publish , in its annual reports , a table listing the scale and the level of fees and the stat
 meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol , recalling decisions 29/cmp .1 , 6/cmp.2 , 6/cmp.4 , 15/cmp.7 , 10/cmp.8 , 2/cp.7 and 2/cp.17 , 1. requests the subsidiary body for implementation to conduct the third comprehensive review of the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in
 under the kyoto protocol , and that meeting the mandated timelines of the review process may be challenging because of this additional work , 1. requests the secretariat to organize the review of the 2015 and 2016 greenhouse gas inventory submissions from parties included in annex i to the conventi
raph 1 , of the kyoto protocol , in conjunction with each other and with the review of those inventory submissions under the convention ; 2. also requests the secretariat to organize , in accordance with decisions 2/cmp.8 and 4/cmp.11 ,3 the review of the reports to facilitate the calculation of the
 referred to in paragraph 1 above , striving to complete each review no later than one year after the submission d ate of the report ; 3. further requests the secretariat to continue to make improvements to the crf reporter functionality , prioritizing the resolution of outstanding issues related to
udgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat pursuant to the provisions contained in paragraphs 1 and 2 above ; 6. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the avail ability of financial resources . 8th plenary m
uring the reporting period , and the accreditation of 5 regional implementing entities , includi ng 1 accredited during the reporting period ; 5. requests the adaptation fund board to continue its efforts to simplify accreditation procedures for national implementing entities and to report back on i
; 10. notes with appreciation the efforts of the adaptation fund board secretariat to organize workshops for national implementing entities ; 11. requests the adaptation fund board to provide in its reports to the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the par ties to the kyoto protocol
of inventories under article 8 of the kyoto protocol to the review of information on assigned amounts under article 8 of the kyoto protocol ; 19. requests the administrator of the international transaction log to develop an application to facilitate the submission of the standard electroni c format 
licable to the parties included in annex i without quantified emission limitation and reduction commitments for the second commitment period ; 7. requests the secretariat , in view of the revision of the “ guidelines for review under article 8 of the kyoto protocol ” , to modify the relevant informa
r article 8 of the kyoto protocol , which builds on the training pro gramme for greenhouse gas inventory review experts under the convention , 1. requests the secretariat to update and implement the courses on national systems , application of adjustments , modalities for the accounting of assigned 
s , ensuring that the courses incorporate the rules and modalities applicable to the second commitment period under the kyoto protoc ol ; 2. also requests the secretariat to develop and implement the courses referred to in paragraph 1 above , if possible in time for the first inventory review of the
rity for the developme nt of the course related to review of activities under article 3 , paragraphs 3 and 4 , of the kyoto protocol ; 3. further requests the secretariat to continue the current practice of including , in its annual report on the technical review of greenhouse gas inve ntories repor
5. takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in paragraph 1 above ; 6. requests that t he actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . fccc/kp/cmp/2
y sustainable development tool ; 4. welcomes the launch of the online platform for voluntary cancellation of certified emission reductions ; 3 5. requests the executive board and the secretariat to facilitate access to the section concerning sustainabl e development in the project and programme desi
xecutive board to carry out the sector -specific validation functions and/or sector -specific verification functions described in the annex ; 11. requests the executive board to analyse the need for measures to ensure the continued participation of designated operational entities in the clean develo
 cases where the executive board considers that the assessment of such a request can be conducted without the project -specific information ; 13. requests the executive board to implement paragraph 12 above by revising the relevant regulations ; 14. encourages the executive board to continue the dev
t of digitized project and programme design d ocument forms for clean development mechanism project activities and programmes of activities ; 15. requests the executive board to develop more cost -effective and context - appropriate approaches for monitoring , reporting and verification with a focus
ronmental integrity and additionality ; iv . registration of project activities and programmes and issuance of c ertified emission reductions 18. requests the executive board to develop stand -alone programme of activit ies guidance , consisting , inter alia , of a “ clean development mechanism prog
oject activities carried out d irectly by the coordinating/managing entity without prior validation through a designated operational entity ; 20. requests the executive board to consider developing a standardized registration template using objective criteria for activities that qualify as a utomati
blic ; 22. also encourages the execu tive board to improve the user -friendliness of the existing sustainable development co -benefits tool ; 23. requests designated operational entit ies to confirm that request s for issuance of emission reductions are submitted only to the executive board ; 24. al
signated operational entit ies to confirm that request s for issuance of emission reductions are submitted only to the executive board ; 24. also requests the executive board to examine how the information specified in paragraph 12 of appendix d to decision 3/cmp.1 can be best made publicly availabl
e clean development mechanism in r egions underrepresented in the mechanism and to support stakeholders at the regional and national levels ; 26. requests the executive board to expand , taking into account paragraph 28 below , the scope and scale of regional collaboration centres ’ assistance acti 
esources and deep gratitude to the staff that have left the secretariat for their enormous contribution to the clean d evelopment mechanism ; 28. requests the executive board to ensure the transparent and prudent management of the resources of the clean development mechanism , including the spending
rrently faced by participants in joint impleme ntation , with projects declining to a point where the mechanism is practically non -existent ; 4. requests the joint implementation supervisory committee to submit recommendations for consideration by the subsidiary body for implementation at its forty
ragraph 15. available at < http : //ji.unfccc.int/sup_committee/meetings/index.html > . 6 fccc/sbi/2015/l.30 . fccc/kp/cmp/2015/8/add.2 8 5. also requests the joint implementation supervisory committee to submit recommendations for consider ation by the subsidiary body for implementation at its fort
 lessons learned from joint implementation for the possible design of mitigation mechanisms and on links and interactions with other tools ; 7 7. requests the joint implementation supervisory committee to reflect on synergies between joint implementation and other mitigation mechanisms to ensure the
ce of double counting , in particular regarding infrastructure and technical arrangements , tools , governance structures and processes ; 8. also requests the joint implementation supervisory committee to prepare an analysis of the experiences and lessons learned referred to in paragraph 6 above , t
g for the biennium 2016 –2017 , with the fees for the first year of the biennium being equal to the fees for the second year of the biennium ; 3. requests the executive secretary to notify parties connected to the international transaction log in the biennium 2016 –2017 of the annual fees , calculat
from previous financial periods to cover the potential shortfall in fees due to the disconnection of parties during the biennium 2016 –2017 ; 10. requests the international transaction log administrator to provide , in its annual reports for 2 016 and 2017 , information on transactions of kyoto prot
nsaction log administrator to provide , in its annual reports for 2 016 and 2017 , information on transactions of kyoto protocol units ; 11. also requests the international transaction log administrator to publish , in its annual reports , a table listing the scale and the level of fees and the stat
 meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol , recalling decisions 29/cmp .1 , 6/cmp.2 , 6/cmp.4 , 15/cmp.7 , 10/cmp.8 , 2/cp.7 and 2/cp.17 , 1. requests the subsidiary body for implementation to conduct the third comprehensive review of the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in
 under the kyoto protocol , and that meeting the mandated timelines of the review process may be challenging because of this additional work , 1. requests the secretariat to organize the review of the 2015 and 2016 greenhouse gas inventory submissions from parties included in annex i to the conventi
raph 1 , of the kyoto protocol , in conjunction with each other and with the review of those inventory submissions under the convention ; 2. also requests the secretariat to organize , in accordance with decisions 2/cmp.8 and 4/cmp.11 ,3 the review of the reports to facilitate the calculation of the
 referred to in paragraph 1 above , striving to complete each review no later than one year after the submission d ate of the report ; 3. further requests the secretariat to continue to make improvements to the crf reporter functionality , prioritizing the resolution of outstanding issues related to
udgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat pursuant to the provisions contained in paragraphs 1 and 2 above ; 6. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the avail ability of financial resources . 8th plenary m
 1. decides that the third review of the adaptation fund will be undertaken in accordance with the terms of reference contained in the annex ; 2. requests the adaptation fund board to make available in its report to the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto pro
f reference contained in the annex , for consideration b y the subsidiary body for implementation at its forty -sixth session ( may 2017 ) ; 1 4. requests the secretariat , in collaboration with the adaptation fund board secretariat , to prepare a technical paper on the third review of the adaptatio
 to in paragraph 3 above , for consideration by the subsidiar y body for implementation at its forty -seventh session ( november 2017 ) ; 5. also requests the subsidiary body for implementation to complete its work on the third review of the adaptation fund at its forty -seventh session with a view 
ing and streamlining , in particular the registration and issuance processes , and methodologies , while maintaining environmental integrity ; 6. requests the executive board t o analyse the overall cost for designated operational entities and to report back to the conference of the parties serving 
oans on a case -by- case basis , where it becomes evident that it will not be feasible for the loan recipi ent to repay the disbursed funds ; 15. requests the implementing agency and the secretariat to work closely with loan recipients that wish to continue under the cdm loan scheme to help those re
o dec ides that other changes to the cdm loan scheme are not required at this time ; v. resources for work on the clean development mechanism 18. requests the executive board to continue to ensure the prudent management of the resources of the clean development mechanis m and its ability to perform 
vers to submit , by 9 march 2017 , suggestions for potential topic s related to the kyoto protocol for the 6th meeting of the durban forum ; 3 9. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 9th plenary me
r 2017 in a timely manner , bearing in mind that contributions are due on 1 january of each year in accordance with the financial procedures ; 6. requests the secretariat to explore options on ways to address outstanding contributions to the core b udget for consideration by the subsidiary body for 
 enhancing and streamlining accreditation policies for implementing entities , inclu ding reaccreditation of previously accredited entities ; 11. requests the adaptation fund board to make available , as part of its annual report , information on board meetings and other relevant developments that h
appropriate ; ( d ) to continue the efforts to enhance complementarity and coherence with other funds both under and ou tside the convention ; 8. requests the adaptation fund board : ( a ) to consider lessons learned from the adaptation fund ’ s engagement with private sector stakeholders in adaptat
 the future reports of the adaptation fund to the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol ; 9. also requests the subsidiary body for implementation , at its session to be held in june 2020 , to initiate the fourth review of the adaptation fund , in accor
of acceptance in respect of the doha amendment3 pursuant to art icle 20 of the kyoto protocol with a view to expediting its entry into force , 1. requests the executive board of the clean development mechanism to continue to simplify the process for the development and approval of standardized basel
 7 and 8 ; 3. recognizes the support provided to stakeholders in the clean development mechanism through the regional collaboration centres , and requests the executive board to continue to support clean development mechanism project development via the regional collaboration centres and to report b
uilding activities in countries with econom ies in transition that are currently receiving support ; 4. decides to conclude the fourth review and requests the subsidiary body for implementation , at its fifty -second session ( june 2020 ) , to initiate the fifth review of the implementation of the f
 actions referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4 above could be used to cover the budget of the international transaction log for future bienniums ; 7. requests the administrator of the international transac tion log to disclose in its annual reports the unspent balance of the trust fund for the internati
 the balance of fees for the second year of the biennium , as contained in the annex ; 1 fccc/sbi/2017/4/add . 2. fccc/kp/cmp/2017/7/add.1 19 10. requests the executive secretary to notify parties connected to the international transaction log in t he biennium 2018 –2019 of the annual fees , calcula
 two reminders have already been given to the party and consultations have taken place with the party concerned prior to the final reminder ; 17. requests the international transaction log administrator to provide , in its annual reports for 2018 and 2019 , information on transactions of k yoto prot
nsaction log administrator to provide , in its annual reports for 2018 and 2019 , information on transactions of k yoto protocol units ; 18. also requests the international transaction log administrator to publish , in its annual reports , a table listing the scale and the level of fees and the stat
e listing the scale and the level of fees and the status of payments for all parties connected to the international transaction log ; 19. further requests the subsidiary body for implementation , at its fiftieth session ( june 2019 ) , to recommend a methodology for the collection of international t
ntry parties and developed country parties that a re parties to the paris agreement are eligible for membership on the adaptation fund board ; 5. requests the subsidiary body for implementation , at its fiftieth session ( june 2019 ) , to consider the matter referred to in paragraph 4 above , and to
of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol for consideration at its fifteenth session ( december 2019 ) ; 6. also requests the adaptation fund board to consider the rules of procedure of the board , the arrangements of the adaptation fund with respect to the paris agr
mentarity and coherence with other funds both under and outside the convention , including to better align processes and leverage financing ; 11. requests the adaptation fund board to report on any outcomes related to paragraphs 9 and 10 above to the conference of the parties serving as the meeting 
pproaches for calculating emission reductions from project activities , resulting in the reduced use of non -renewable biomass in households ; 5. requests the executive board and the secretariat to ensure th e efficient and prudent use of resources of the trust fund for the clean development mechani
voluntary contribution to the core budget of eur 766,938 and its special contribution of eur 1,789,522 as host government of the secretariat ; 9. requests the executive secretary to take further measures to recover outstanding contrib utions and encourages parties to pay those outstanding contributi
o expresses its appreciation to the auditors for the valuable observations and recommendations and the presentation made thereon to parties ; 13. requests the executive secretary to implement the recommendations of the auditors , as appropriate , in particular those related to outstanding co ntribut
ties , with a view to reducing redundancies and increasing cost -efficiency , in the context of the programme budget for 2020 –2021 ; 15. further requests the executive secretary to prepare , regularly update and publish before each session of the subsidiary bodies brief reports on standard costs an
of the subsidiary bodies brief reports on standard costs and , if available , options for reducing the cost of activities where practicable ; 16. requests the executive secretary to provide budgetary c ost implications in pre - session documents if they include suggestions for new mandates to the se
actions referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4 above could be used to cover the b udget of the international transaction log for future bienniums ; 7. requests the administrator of the international transaction log to disclo se in its annual reports the unspent balance of the trust fund for the internati
the balance of fees for the second year of the biennium , as contai ned in the annex ; 1 fccc/sbi/2017/4/add . 2. fccc/kp/cmp/2019/8/add.1 19 10. requests the executive secretary to notify parties connected to the international transaction log in the biennium 2020 –2021 of the annual fees , calculat
 two reminders have already been given to the party and consultations have taken place with the party concerned prior to the final reminder ; 17. requests the internati onal transaction log administrator to provide , in its annual reports for 2020 and 2021 , information on transactions of kyoto prot
nsaction log administrator to provide , in its annual reports for 2020 and 2021 , information on transactions of kyoto protocol unit s ; 18. also requests the international transaction log administrator to publish , in its annual reports , a table listing th e scale and the level of fees and the sta
 listing th e scale and the level of fees and the status of payments for all parties connected to the international transaction log ; 19. further requests the subsidiary body for implementation , at its fifty -fourth session ( may –june 2021 ) , to recommend a methodology for th e collection of inte
, fccc/sbi/201 9/inf . 12 and fccc/sbi/201 9/inf . 16 . 3 fccc/sbi/2019/14 and add.1 –2 . 4 fccc/sbi/2019/inf.16 . fccc/kp/cmp/2019/8/add.1 28 9. requests the executive secretary to take further meas ures to recover outstanding contributions and encourages parties to pay those outstanding contributi
tors , as appropriate , including those outstanding from the 2017 audit report , and to update parties on progress in the next audit report ; 14. requests the executive secretary in her update to parties on progress towards implementing the recommendation of the auditors to provide expected timeline
ndates : standard costs , prepared for consideration at the fiftieth an d fifty -first sessions of the subsidiary body for implementation ; 6 18. requests the secretariat to implement the recommendations contained in document fccc/sbi/2019/inf.4 ; 19. also requests the secretariat to report on its e
ry body for implementation ; 6 18. requests the secretariat to implement the recommendations contained in document fccc/sbi/2019/inf.4 ; 19. also requests the secretariat to report on its efforts to further improve the efficiency and transpar ency of the unfccc budget process and documentation for c
able biomass in households and in including in these approaches region -specific default values for the baseline fossil fuel emission factor ; 5. requests the executive board to continue to review the methodological approaches referred to in paragraph 4 above , in particular with respect to the defa
ce on the functioning of the clean development mechanism beyond the end of the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol ; 3 7. decides that requests for registration , renewal of credi ting period and issuance of certified emission reductions for project activities , as well as the equivalent 
ing to emission reductions occurring after 31 december 2020 may not be submitted under the clean deve lopment mechanism , acknowledging that such requests and submissions may be made under the mechanism established by article 6 , paragraph 4 , of the paris agreement ( hereinafter referred to as the 
nd reforestation clean development mechanism project activities , referred to the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advi ce ; 7 9. requests the subsidiary body for implementation to consider measures for implement ing aspects relating to the clean development mechanism registry in dec
the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol at its seventeenth session ( november 2022 ) ; 10. also requests the executive board to cooperate with the supervisory body upon its request to facilitate the expedited implementation of the article 6 , paragra
te with the supervisory body upon its request to facilitate the expedited implementation of the article 6 , paragraph 4 , mechanism ; 11. further requests the executive board to make available hard and soft infrastructure under the clean development mechanism to the supervisory body to facilitate th
8/add.1 5 accordance with decision 3/cma.3 shall be deregistered from the clean development mechanism effective from the date of transition ; 13. requests the executive board to retain the provisional status accorded to the requests for registration , renewal of crediting period and issuance of cert
n development mechanism effective from the date of transition ; 13. requests the executive board to retain the provisional status accorded to the requests for registration , renewal of crediting period and issuance of certifie d emission reductions for project activities as well as to the equivalent
under the temporary measures that meet the conditions for transition therein may transition to the article 6 , paragraph 4 , mechanism ; 14. also requests the executive board to reject the requ ests and other submissions that have been accorded provisional status under the temporary measures but hav
ransitioned to the article 6 , paragraph 4 , mechanism ; 15. decides that the executive board may continue receiving and processing the r elevant requests and submissions under the temporary measures until the date when the process for submission of requests to the secretariat to transition the requ
ue receiving and processing the r elevant requests and submissions under the temporary measures until the date when the process for submission of requests to the secretariat to transition the requests and other submissions that have been accorded provisional status to the article 6 , paragr aph 4 , 
ests and submissions under the temporary measures until the date when the process for submission of requests to the secretariat to transition the requests and other submissions that have been accorded provisional status to the article 6 , paragr aph 4 , mechanism becomes operational , as may be spec
ing the article 6 , paragraph 4 , mechanism to the adaptation fund after the article 6 , paragraph 4 , mechanism has become self -financing ; 22. requests the subsidiary body for implementation to review the status of the trust fund for the clean development mechanism and to develop recommendations 
onference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement to provide guidance and/or clarification on how to add ress requests for funding from parties that are either a party to the kyoto protocol or a party to the paris agreement but not a party to both ; 2 ( b ) the up
review -of-the-medium -term-strategy -of-the-adaptation -fund/ . 7 decision 3/cmp.15 , para . 5. fccc/kp/cmp/2021/ 8/add.1 10 adaptation fund and requests the adaptation fund board to amend the relevant operational policies and guidelines , as well as its strategic priorities , policies and guidelin
licies and guidelines accordingly ; 7. confirms that parties to the paris agreement are eligible for membersh ip on the adaptation fund board and requests the adaptation fund board to amend the relevant procedures and modalities ; 8. also requests the subsidiary body for implementation to continue i
ble for membersh ip on the adaptation fund board and requests the adaptation fund board to amend the relevant procedures and modalities ; 8. also requests the subsidiary body for implementation to continue its consideration of matters relating to membership of the adaptation fund board further to de
elevance , niche function and ambition of the adaptation fund in contributing to the implementation of adaptation action in a timely manner ; 11. requests the adaptation fund board , in line with its existing mandate and decision 1/cmp.3 , to cons ider providing support for country -driven adaptatio
he adaptation fund will be undertaken in accordance with decision 1/cmp.3 , paragraph 33 , and the terms of reference contained in the annex ; 2. requests the adaptation fund board to make available in its report to the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto pro
untry parties and developed country parties that are parties to the paris agreement are eligible for membership on the adaptation fund board ; 5. requests the secretariat , in collaboration with the adaptation fund board secretariat , to prepare a technical paper on the fourth review of the adaptati
ed to in paragraph 3 above , for consideration by the subsidiary body for implementation at its fifty-seventh session ( november 2022 ) ; 6. also requests the subsidiary body for implementation to complete its work on the fourth review of the adaptation fund at its fifty-seventh session , while welc
add.1 15 13. concludes the f ourth comprehensive review of the implementation of the capacity - building framework under the kyoto protocol ; 14. requests the subsidiary body for implementation to develop terms of reference for the fifth comprehensive review of the implementation of the capa city-bu
doption by the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol at its twentieth session ( 2025 ) ; 15. also requests the subsidiary body for implementation to initiate the fifth comprehensive review of the implementation of the capacity -building framework under
fifth review of the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in countries with economies in transition under the kyoto protocol and requests the subsidiary body for implementation , at its sixty -fourth session ( 2026 ) , to initiat e the sixth review thereof with a view to the confere
the actions referred to in paragraphs 3– 4 above could be used to cover the budget of the international transaction log for future bienniums ; 7. requests the administrator of t he international transaction log to disclose in its annual reports the unspent balance of the trust fund for the internati
 fees for the first year of the biennium being equal to the balance of fees for the second year of the biennium , as contained in the annex ; 10. requests the executive secretary to notify parties connected to the international transaction log in the biennium 2022 –2023 of the annual fees , calculat
 two reminders have already been given to the party and consultations have taken place with the party concerned prior to the final reminder ; 17. requests the international transaction log administrator to provide , in its annual reports fo r 2022 and 2023 , information on transactions of kyoto prot
nsaction log administrator to provide , in its annual reports fo r 2022 and 2023 , information on transactions of kyoto protocol units ; 18. also requests the international transaction log administrator to publish , in its annual reports , a table listing the scale and the level of fees and the stat
voluntary contribution to the core budget of eur 766,938 and its special contribution of eur 1,789,522 as host government of the secretariat ; 9. requests the executive secretary to take further measures to reduce parties ’ outstanding contributions ; 1 decision 15/cp.1 , annex i . 2 fccc/s bi/2020/
ccc/sbi/2021/inf.8 . 3 fccc/sbi/2020/3 and add.1 –2 and fccc/sbi/2021/5 and add.1 . 4 fccc/sbi/2021/inf.8 . fccc/kp/cmp/2021/ 8/add.1 35 10. also requests the executive secretary to prepare annual budget performance reports covering 12 and 24 mont hs of the biennium , respectively ; ii . audit repor
 of the governing bodies ; 21. welcomes the proposed measures for improving the efficiency and tr ansparency of the unfccc budget process ; 9 22. requests the secretariat to report on the implementation of those measures in the report on efforts to improve the efficiency and transparency of the unfc
 secretary to presenting supplementary resource requirements by overall objective and thematic area while also enclosing a list of projects ; 26. requests the secretariat to enhance follow -up on parties ’ outstanding core contributions , including through payment plans ; 27. decides to keep the lev
keep the level of the working capital res erve at 8.3 per cent of annual total expenditure ( in line with the unfccc financial procedures ) ; 28. requests the secretariat to inform parties of the review and prioritization criteria for unearmarked contributions to ensure that they are allocated to ac
h 15 of decision 2/cmp.16 , the executive board may continue to receive and process , under the temporary measures adopted at its 108th meeting , requests for registration , renewal of cr editing period and issuance of certified emission reductions for project activities and equivalent submissions f
e component project activities relating to emission reductions occurring after 31 december 2020 until the date when the process for submission of requests to the secretariat to transition the requests and other submissions that have been accorded 1 decision 1/cmp.8 , annex i . 2 fccc/kp/cmp/202 2/7 
ssion reductions occurring after 31 december 2020 until the date when the process for submission of requests to the secretariat to transition the requests and other submissions that have been accorded 1 decision 1/cmp.8 , annex i . 2 fccc/kp/cmp/202 2/7 . 3 see document fccc/kp/cmp/20 22/7 , chap . 
p/cmp/2022/9/add.1 5 provisional status to the mechanism established by article 6 , paragraph 4 , of the paris agreement becomes operational ; 6. requests the secretariat to prepare a technical paper to support the consideration by the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties 
of the corresponding processes under the article 6 , paragraph 4 , mechani sm , including the following : ( a ) submissions to the secretariat of requests for issuance of certified emission reductions for monitoring periods ending before 1 january 2021 in accordance with the relevant procedure devel
nding before 1 january 2021 in accordance with the relevant procedure developed by the executive board ; ( b ) submission s to the secretariat of requests for voluntary cancellation of certified emission reductions in accordance with the relevant procedure developed by the executive board ; ( c ) ap
evant procedure developed by the executive board ; ( d ) operation of the accreditation processes under the clean development mechanism ; 7. also requests the executi ve board to assess the technical feasibility , as priority , to allow submissions of requests for registration , issuance and renewal
e clean development mechanism ; 7. also requests the executi ve board to assess the technical feasibility , as priority , to allow submissions of requests for registration , issuance and renewal of afforestation and reforestation project activities and programmes of activities under the temporary me
iii . transfer of certified emission reductions to the mechanism registry of the article 6 , paragraph 4 , mechanism under the paris agreement 8. requests the clean development mechanism registry administrator , in accordance with paragraph 75 ( a ) of the annex to decision 3/cma.3 , to identify cer
rate with the executive board on implementing the process for transferring eligible certified emission reductions to the mechanism registry ; 11. requests the executive board , in coordination with the supervisory body and taking into account the timelines for implementing the mechanism registry and
o the mechanism registry , noting that such project participants , parties and the trustee of the adaptation fund shall provide in their transfer requests : ( i ) the serial numbers of the eligible certified emission reduction s requested to be transferred ; ( ii ) the details of their receiving acc
 mechanism registry in its annual report to the conference of the p arties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol ; 12. also requests the clean development mechanism registry administrator to : ( a ) implement the modifications to the clean development mechanism registry necessa
ctions transfer red to the mechanism registry on the clean development mechanism registry web page ; 6 iv . management of financial resources 13. requests the executive board and the secretariat to ensure the efficient and prudent use of resources from the trust fund for the clean development mechan
ng , in february 2006 ; 4. decides to terminate the joint implementation supervisory committee established by decision 9/cmp.1 , paragraph 3 ; 5. requests the secretariat to take the necessary steps to conclude matters relating to the operations of the committee and to prepare a report on the operat
to access resources from the adaptation fund and adopts the amended strategic priorities , policies and guidelines of the adaptation fund ; 9 11. requests the adaptation fund board to consider , in line with its mandate and decision 1/cmp.3 , providing su pport for country -driven adaptation project
ontinue this work to streamline access modalities for project approval and the interoperabili ty of reporting requirements , as appropriate ; 13. requests the board to adopt a policy on safeguarding against sexual exploitation and abuse and sexual harassment . 10th plenary meeting 20 november 2022 7
d projects ; ( d ) further improving geographical and thematic coverage in the accreditation of national and regional implementing entities ; 14. requests the adaptation fund board to include in its annual report to the conference of the parties serving as the meet ing of the parties to the kyoto pr
articular across the fund ’ s five core indicators , accompanied by qualitative analysis of successes , challenges and lessons learned ; 15. also requests the board to review and update the environmental and s ocial safeguard policy of the adaptation fund , as needed ; 16. further requests the board
 15. also requests the board to review and update the environmental and s ocial safeguard policy of the adaptation fund , as needed ; 16. further requests the board to increase the gender -responsiveness of the resources provided by the adaptation fund ; 17. invites the board to consider ways to str
tions and invites the adaptation fund board to continue to strengthen its provision of support and country engagement at the regional level ; 19. requests the subsidiary body for implementation at its sixty -second session ( june 2025 ) to initiate the fifth review of the adaptation fund in accordan
voluntary contribution to the core budget of eur 766,938 and its special contribution of eur 1,789,522 as host government of the secretariat ; 8. requests the executive secretary to take further measures to reduce parties ’ outstanding contributions ; ii . other budgetary matters 9. takes note of th
he mechanisms currently in place for funding employee benefits , as summarized in section iii of the note referred to in paragraph 14 above ; 16. requests the secretariat to continue implementing the mechanisms referred in paragraph 15 above ; 17. also requests the secretariat to inform the subsidia
eferred to in paragraph 14 above ; 16. requests the secretariat to continue implementing the mechanisms referred in paragraph 15 above ; 17. also requests the secretariat to inform the subsidiary body for implementation of any relevant developments with regard to the funding of employee benefits , i
oluntary contribution to the core budget of eur 766,938 and its special contribution of eur 1,789,522 as host government of the secretariat ; 14. requests the executive secretary to take further measures to reduce parties ’ outstanding contributions . 9th plenary meeting 17 november 2022 fccc/kp/cmp
t under the united nations framework convention on climate change ( hereinafter referred to as “ the agreement ” ) as contained in the annex ; 2. requests the secretary -general of the unite d nations to be the depositary of the agreement and to have it open for signature in new york , united states
 ; 5. recognizes that parties to the convention may provisionally apply all of the provisions of the agreement pending its entry into force , and requests parties to provide notification of any such provisional application to the depositary ; 6. notes that the work of the ad hoc working group on the
eeting of the parties to the paris agreement ; 9. further decides to oversee the implementation of the work programme resulting from the relevant requests contained in this decision ; 10. requests the ad hoc working group on the paris agreement to report regularly to the conference of the parties on
nt ; 9. further decides to oversee the implementation of the work programme resulting from the relevant requests contained in this decision ; 10. requests the ad hoc working group on the paris agreement to report regularly to the conference of the parties on the progress of it s work and to complete
er 2016 ) and in a manner that facilitates the clarity , transparency and understanding of the intended nationally determined contributions ; 14. requests the secretariat to continue to publish the intended nationally determined contributions communicated by parties on the unfccc website ; 15. reite
, in this context , the adaptation needs expressed by many developing country parties in their intended nationally determined contributions ; 19. requests the secretariat to update the synthesis report referred to in paragraph 16 above so as to cover all the information in the intended nationally de
bution prior to joining the agreement , that party shall be considered to have satisfied this provision unless that party decides otherwise ; 23. requests those parties whose intended nationally determined contribution pursuant to decision 1 /cp.20 contains a time frame up to 2025 to communicate by 
ting the clarity , transparency and understanding of these contributions , including through a synthesis report prepared by the secretariat ; 26. requests the ad hoc working group on the paris agreement to develop further guidance on features of the nationally determined contributions for considerat
 light of its national circumstances , and how it contributes towards achieving the objective of the convention as set out in its article 2 ; 28. requests the ad hoc working group on the paris agreement to develop further guidance for the information to be provided by parties in order to facilitate 
ration and adoption by the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at its first session ; 29. also requests the subsidiary body for implementation to develop modalities and procedures for the operation and use of the public registry referred to in artic
ion and adoption by the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at its first session ; 30. further requests the secretariat to make available an interim public registry in the first half of 2 016 for the recording of nationally determined contributions 
the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement of the modalities and procedures referred to in paragraph 29 above ; 31. requests the ad hoc working group on the paris agreement to elaborate , drawing from approaches established under the convention and its related legal ins
mid -century , long -term low greenhouse gas emission development strategies in accordance with article 4 , paragraph 19 , of the agreement , and requests the secretariat to publish on the unfccc website parties ’ low greenhouse gas emission development strategies as communicated ; 36. requests the 
 and requests the secretariat to publish on the unfccc website parties ’ low greenhouse gas emission development strategies as communicated ; 36. requests the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice to develop and recommend the guidance referred to under article 6 , paragraph 2 , of 
ence gained with and lessons learned from existing mechanisms and approaches adopted under the convention and its related legal instruments ; 38. requests the subsidiary bod y for scientific and technological advice to develop and recommend rules , modalities and procedures for the mechanism referre
ration and adoption by the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at its first session ; 39. also requests the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice to undertake a work programme under the framework for non -market approaches to susta
e , technology transfer and capacity -building , and how to facilitate the implementation and coordination of non-market approaches ; 40. further requests the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice to recommend a draft decision on the work programme referred to in paragraph 39 above
and adoption by the conference of the parties se rving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at its first session ; adaptation 41. requests the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group to jointly develop modalities to recognize the adaptation efforts of deve
ration and adoption by the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at its first session ; 42. also requests the adaptation committee , taking into account its mandate and its second three -year workplan , an d with a view to preparing recommendations fo
ecretariat on how their development assistance and climate finance programmes incorporate climate -proofing and climate resilience measures ; 44. requests parties to strengthen regional cooperation on adaptation where appropriate and , where necessary , establish regional centres and netw orks , in 
establish regional centres and netw orks , in particular in developing countries , taking into account decision 1/cp.16 , paragraph 30 ; 45. also requests the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group , in collaboration with the standing committee on finance and other relev
reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of adaptation and support referred to in article 7 , paragraph 14 ( c ) , of the agreement ; 46. further requests the green climate fund to expedite support for the least developed countries and other developing country parties for the formulation of national
ntinuation of the warsaw international mechanism for loss and damage associated with climate change im pacts , following the review in 2016 ; 48. requests the executive committee of the warsaw international mechanism to establish a clearing house for risk transfer that serves as a repository for inf
e and risk transfer , in order to facilitate t he efforts of parties to develop and implement comprehensive risk management strategies ; 49. also requests the executive committee of the warsaw international mechanism to establish , according to its procedures and mandate , a task force to complement
mmendations for integrated approaches to avert , minimize and address displacement related to the adverse impacts of climate change ; 50. further requests the executive committee of the warsaw international mechanism to initiate its work , at its next meeting , to operationalize the provisions refer
h 7 , of the agreement shall be undertaken in accordance with the modalities , procedure s and guidelines referred to in paragraph 91 below ; 57. requests the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice to develop modalities for the accounting of financial resources provided and mobilize
 the results of technology needs assessments as contained in document fccc/sb/2015/inf.3 ; 66. decides to strengthen the technology mechanism and requests the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network , in supporting the implementation of the agreement , to underta
 a ) technology research , development and demonstration ; ( b ) the d evelopment and enhancement of endogenous capacities and technologies ; 67. requests the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice to initiate , at its forty -fourth session ( may 2016 ) , the elaboration of the tech
ed to the technology mechanism in supporting the implementation of the agreement on matters relating to technology development and transfer ; 70. requests the subsi diary body for implementation to initiate , at its forty -fourth session , the elaboration of the scope of and modalities for the perio
with the purpose of maintaining up -to-date knowledge on the successes and challenges in building capacity effectively in a particular area ; 75. requests the s ubsidiary body for implementation to organize annual in -session meeting s of the paris committee on capacity -building ; 76. also r equest
second session ; 77. invites parties to submit their views on the membership of the paris committee on capacity -building by 9 march 2016 ; 2 78. requests the secretariat to compile the submissions referred to in paragraph 77 above into a miscellaneous document for consideration by the subsidiary bo
 work of bodies established under the convention and its kyoto protocol , and reports on the durban forum and the capacity -building portal ; 80. requests the paris com mittee on capacity -building to prepare annual technical progress reports on its work , and to make these reports available at the 
r meeting the provisions stipulated in article 13 of the agreement ; ( c ) to assist in the improvement of transparency over time ; 86. urges and requests the global environment facility to make arra ngements to support the establishment and operation of the capacity -building initiative for transpa
s the implementation of the capacity -building initiative for transparency in the context of the seventh revi ew of the financial mechanism ; 88. requests that the global environment facility , as an operating entity of the financial mechanism , include in its annual report to the conference of the 
al basis , and that the least developed country parties and small island developing states may submit this information at their disc retion ; 91. requests the ad hoc working group on the paris agreement to develop recommendations for modalities , procedures and guidelines in accordance with article 
erence of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement for consideration and adoption at its first session ; 92. also requests the ad hoc working group on the paris agreement , in developing the recommendations for the modalities , procedures and guidelines referred to in
 under the convention ; ( f ) the need to ensure that double counting is avoided ; ( g ) the need to ensure environmental integrity ; 93. further requests the ad hoc working group on the paris agreement , in developing the modalities , procedures and guidelines refe rred to in paragraph 91 above , t
rred to in paragraph 91 above , to draw on the experiences from and take into account other ongoing relevant processes under the convention ; 94. requests the ad hoc working group on the paris agreement , in developing the modalities , procedures and guidelines re ferred to in paragraph 91 above , t
 on finance and other relevant bodies under the convention ; ( f ) information on the social and economic impact of response measu res ; 95. also requests the ad hoc working group on the paris agreement , in developing recommendations for the modalities , procedures and guidelines referred to in par
s referred to in paragraph 91 above , to enhance the transparency of support provided in accordance with article 9 of the agreement ; 96. further requests the ad hoc working group on the paris agreement to report on the progress of work on the modalities , procedures and guidelines referred to in pa
p.17 , pa ragraphs 12 –62 , immediately following the submission of the final biennial reports and biennial update reports ; global stocktake 99. requests the ad hoc working group on the paris agreement to identify the sources of input for the global stocktake referred t o in article 14 of the agree
sion of support ; ( b ) the latest reports of the intergovernmental panel o n climate change ; ( c ) reports of the subsidiary bodies ; 100. also requests the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice to provide advice on how the assessments of the intergovernmental panel on climate ch
 14 and to report on this matter to the ad hoc working group on the paris agreement at its second session ; fccc/cp/2015/10/add.1 15 101. further requests the ad hoc working group on the paris agreement to develop modalities for the global stocktake referred to in article 14 of the agreement and to 
mber each from the small island developing states and the least developed countries , while taking into account the goal of gender balance ; 103. requests the ad hoc working group on the paris agreement to deve lop the modalities and procedures for the effective operation of the committee referred t
ion by the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at its first session ; final c lauses 104. also requests the secretariat , solely for the purposes of article 21 of the agreement , to make av ailable on its website on the date of adoption of the agree
ion to facilitating progress in the implementation of policies , practices and actions identified during the technical examination process ; 111. requests the secretariat to organize the process referred to in paragraph 109 above and disseminate its results , including by : ( a ) organizing , in con
dalities , outputs , outcomes and lessons learned from the techni cal examination process on mitigation referred to in paragraph 109 above ; 129. requests the secretariat to support the process referred to in paragraph 124 above by : ( a ) organizing regular technical expert meetings focusing on spe
s 137. takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be und ertaken by the secretariat referred to in this decision and requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources ; 138. emphasize
ctivities that would facilitate policymakers ’ understanding of the impact of different levels of warming on adaptation planning and actions ; 5. requests the technology executive committee , in collaboration with the climate technology centre and network , the adaptation committee and the least dev
g of national development strategies and policies aimed at enhancing livelihoods and economic diversification to enhance climate resil ience ; 7. requests the adaptation committee to further strengthen cooperation with the standing committee on finance and other constituted bodies under the conventi
ted budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secre tariat pursuant to the provisions contained in paragraph 2 above ; 12. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 10th plenary m
ision of financial and technical support to developing country parties for the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans ; 10. requests the least developed countries expert group and the adaptation committee to consider how they can provide more information on accessing funding fr
r the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans and to include such information , as appropriate , in their reports ; 11. also requests the subsidiary body fo r implementation to assess progress made in the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans at its forty 
ed budgetary implicat ions of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat pursuant to the provisions contained in paragraph 12 above ; 15. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 10th plenary m
 of the in -session workshop on long -term climate finance in 2016 and the second biennial assessment and overview of climate f inance flows ; 5. requests the presidency of the conference of the parties , with the support of the secretariat , to prepare a summary of the second biennial high -level m
 committee on finance to the conference of the parties at its twenty -first session , taking note of the recommendations contained therein ; 1 2. requests the standing committee on finance to continue to strengthen its engagement with a ll relevant stakeholders and bodies under the convention ; 3. e
 a ll relevant stakeholders and bodies under the convention ; 3. endorses the workplan of the standing committee on finance for 2016 –2017 ; 2 4. requests the standing committee on finance , in implementing its workplan on the measurement , reporting and verification of support beyond the biennial a
ulture organization of the united nations for their support in ensuring the success of the third forum of the standing committee on fi nance ; 8. requests the standing committee on finance to report to the conference of the parties at its twenty -second session ( november 2016 ) on the progress made
anding committee on finance referred to in decision 6/cp.20 , paragraph 23 , at the twenty -second session of the conference of the parties ; 10. requests the subsidiary body for implementation , at its forty -fifth session ( november 2016 ) , to prepare draft terms of reference for the r eview refe
f the submissions referred to in paragraph 11 below , for consideration by the conference of the parties at its twenty -second session ; 11. also requests the members of the standing committee on finance and invites parties and observer organizations to submit their views on the terms of reference f
ctions of the standing committee on finance by 21 september 2016,4 for compilation by the secretariat into a miscellaneous document ; 12. further requests the standing committee on finance to consider the guidance provided to it in other relevant decisions of the conference of the parties . 10th ple
so welcomes the establishment of a project preparation facility that will be targeted to small -scale activities and direct access entities , and requests the board of the green climate fund to consi der lessons learned from other relevant facilities ; 7. further welcomes the allocation of up to usd
l , viet nam , brussels -capital region , flemish region , walloon region and the city of paris . 4 fccc/cp/2015/3 . fccc/cp/2015/10/add.2 11 10. requests the board of the green climate fund to agree on the arrangements for the first formal replenishment process of the green climate fund as soon as 
fund to ensure that the revised funding proposal template and concept note template are designed to facilitate the application process ; 14. also requests the board of the green climate fund to adopt a simplified process for approval of proposals for certain activities , in particular for small -sca
disbursement of readiness resources to facilitate readiness programme implementation pursuant to green climate fund board decision b.11/ 04 ; 18. requests the board of the green climate fund to prioritize the development of its initial risk management framework ; 19. also requests the board of the g
ion b.11/ 04 ; 18. requests the board of the green climate fund to prioritize the development of its initial risk management framework ; 19. also requests the board of the green climate fund to enhance transparency and stakeholder engagement ; 20. urges the board of the green climate fund to operati
n climate fund to consider the mobilization of private sector finance to progress the green climate fund ’ s forestry -related result areas ; 25. requests the board of the green climate fund to take into account decision 16/cp.21 , in particular paragraph 6 , referring to support for alternative pol
ppropriate mechanisms to support the fund through appropriate expert and technical advice , including from thematic bodies , as appropriate ; 28. requests the board of the green climate fund to report to the conference of parties on the steps it has taken to implement the guidance provided in this d
f the review referred to in paragraph 6 above in its report to the conference of the parties at its twenty -second session ( november 2016 ) ; 8. requests the global environment facility to carry out a t echnical review of the programme priorities of the least developed countries fund , taking into 
ng their intended nationally det ermined contributions ,4 and encourages the global environment facility to continue providing such support ; 12. requests the global environment facility to consider how to support developing country parties in formulating policies , strategies , programmes and pr oj
arties , their views and recommendations on the elements to be taken into account in developing guidance to the global environment facility ; 16. requests the global environment facility to include , in its annual report to t he conference of the parties , information on the steps it has taken to im
 of the common tabular format with the categorization used in other existing international methodologies ( “ committed ” and “ disbursed ” ) ; 7. requests the secretariat to revise the electronic reporting applica tion for a common tabular format , in accordance with the provisions contained in the 
into account their national circumstances , when preparing and submitting their biennial reports in 2018 in accordance with decision 2/cp.17 ; 9. requests parties included in annex ii to the convention to continue to provide inform ation on the underlying assumptions and the methodologies used in th
 the convention to continue to provide inform ation on the underlying assumptions and the methodologies used in their biennial reports ; 10. also requests the secretariat to improve the software of the biennial report data interface to allow for search functions on the unfccc website to collect info
 tables 7 , 7 ( a ) and 7 ( b ) of the common tabular format ( i.e . category “ recipient country/region , financial instrument ” ) ; 11. further requests the secretariat to explore ways of creating links to other reporting software and platforms to faci litate the importation and exportation of act
n and exportation of activity -level data , and to inform the standing committee on finance to take this into consideration in its workplan ; 12. requests the secretariat to update the unfccc national focal points when the information referre d to in paragraph 6 above on climate finance directed to 
eferre d to in paragraph 6 above on climate finance directed to recipient countries as reported under the convention is made available ; 13. also requests the standing committee on finance to take into account the enhanced information provided by parties included in a nnex ii to the convention refer
ed in a nnex ii to the convention referred to in paragraph 6 above in its biennial assessment and overview of climate finance flows ; 14. further requests the standing committee on finance to take into account the work on the methodologies for the reporting of financia l information by parties inclu
y implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat pursuant to the provisions contained in paragraphs 7 , 10 and 11 above ; 17. requests that the acti ons of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . fccc/cp/2015/
 work , and take into account the results of relevant work co nducted under the convention and its kyoto protocol and the subsidiary bodies ; 10. requests the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice and the subsidiary body for implementation to consider the scope of the next periodic
ance the capacity of parties , in particular developing country parties , to deal with the impact of the implementation of response measures ; 3. requests the chairs of the subsidiary bodies to convene the improved forum in order to implement the work programme on the impact of the implementation of
ns of the subsidiary bodies , with its first meeting taking place at th e forty - fourth sessions ( may 2016 ) of the subsidiary bodies ; 4. also requests the subsidiary bodies , in order to advance the work of the improved forum , to constitute ad hoc technical expert groups , as appropriate , to e
d analysis of impact s , including the use and development of economic modelling , taking into account all relevant policy issues of concern ; 7. requests the subsidiary bodies to review every three years , beginning at their forty - ninth sessions ( november 2018 ) , the work programme o f the impr
o recommending th ose actions , as appropriate , to the conference of the parties , beginning at its twenty -third session ( november 2017 ) ; 9. requests the secretariat to prepare , subject to the availability of financial resources , a guidance document to assist developing country parties to ass
ated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat pursuant to the provisions contained in paragraph 9 above ; 11. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 11th plenary m
ssessment process ; 6. invites the climate technology centre and network to use the guidance referred to in paragraph 5 above when re sponding to requests from developing countr y parties regarding the provision of assistance to enable the implementation of the results of their technology needs asse
the fulfilment and implementation of their respective mandates effectively , in accordance with article 12 , paragraph 4 , of the convention ; 8. requests the technology executive committee , the climate technology centre and network and the operating entities of the financial mechanism to continue 
orty -fourth sessions of the subsidiary bodies ( may 2016 ) , the linkages between the technology mechanism and the financial mechanism ; 9. also requests the technology executive committee to include , in its annual report , the findings arising from the activities referred to in paragraph 8 above 
oping countries established under decision 2/cp.7 ( hereinafter referred to as the c apacity -building framework ) as contained in the annex ; 2. requests the subsidiary body for implementation to conduct the comprehensive review of the implementation of the capacity -building framework at its forty
ft decision on this matter for consideration and adoption by the conference of partie s at its twenty -second session ( november 2016 ) ; 3. also requests the secretariat to prepare a technical paper based on the terms of reference referred to in paragraph 1 above as input to the comprehensive revie
tion play a fundamental role in meeting the ultimate objective of the convention and in promoting climate -resilient sustainable development , 1. requests the subsidiary body for implementation to launch the intermediate review of the implementation o f the doha work programme on article 6 of the co
orkshops , as approp riate , in order to support the implementation of the doha work programme ; 1 decision 19/cp.20 . fccc/cp/2015/10/add.3 8 3. requests the global environment facility to report on the progress made in providing financial support and implementing activities to contribute to the im
and donors to report on financial resources provided to support the activities relating to the implementation of article 6 of the convention ; 5. requests the secretariat : ( a ) to prepare a report on the progress made , as well as emerging g aps , needs and recommendations by parties , admitted ob
d nations alliance on climate change education , training and public awareness so as t o catalyse action on article 6 of the convention ; 6. also requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . fccc/cp/2015/1
w to those recommendations being forwarded to the conference of the parties at its twenty -fourth session ( november 2018 ) , as appropriate ; 4. requests the least developed countries expert group , in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2 above , when developing its two -year rolling work programme t
ex i to document fcc c/sbi/2015/8 and the compilation of gaps and needs in the least developed countries , considered at this session ; 4 5. also requests the least developed countries expert group to invite the green climate fund secretariat to its meetings , as appropriate ; 6. furthe r requests t
o requests the least developed countries expert group to invite the green climate fund secretariat to its meetings , as appropriate ; 6. furthe r requests the least developed countries expert group , recognizing its good collaboration with the global environment facility , to continue to invite the 
th the global environment facility , to continue to invite the global environment facility and its agencies to its meetings , as appropriate ; 7. requests the least devel oped countries expert group to collaborate with other constituted bodies under the convention , including by inviting members of 
other relevant information for consideration by the subsidiary body for implementation at its fifty-second session , as input to the review ; 15. requests the secretariat to cont inue to facilitate the work of the least developed countries expert group . 10th plenary meeting 10 december 2015 5 < htt
 an nex i parties were able to submit their 2015 greenhouse gas inventories in time to start the review process of those inventories in 2015 , 1. requests the secretariat to organize , for parties included in annex i to the convention ( annex i parties ) that did not undergo a review of their annual
ve to review the greenhouse gas invento ries for annex i parties for the years 2015 and 2016 shall not be precedent -setting for future work ; 4. requests the secretariat to make every effort to facilitate future reviews in accordance with decision 13/cp.20 and any subsequent relevant decisions , wi
ery effort to facilitate future reviews in accordance with decision 13/cp.20 and any subsequent relevant decisions , wit hout exception ; 5. also requests the secretariat to continue to make im provements to the crf reporter functionality , prioritizing the resolution of outstanding issues related t
e united nations general assembly decides not to provide resources for these activities in the united nations regular budget ( see table 3 ) ; 9. requests the executive secretary to report to the subsidiary body for implementation on the implementation of paragraphs 7 and 8 above , as necessary ; 10
 , 777 for the biennium 2016 –2017 ) ( table 5 ) ; 20. invites parties to make contributions to the trust fund for supplementary activities ; 21. requests the executive secretary to report to the conference of the parties at its twenty -second session ( november 2016 ) on income and budget performan
ncome and budget performance , and to propose any adjustments that might be needed in the programme budget for the biennium 2016 –2017 ; 22. also requests the executive secretary to facilitate the consideration of future programme budget proposals by in cluding in the official budget documents budge
 in conformity with united nations general assembly resolution 40/243 , and subject to the successful conclusion of a host country agreement ; 2. requests the executive secretary to continue consultations with the kingdom of morocco and to negotiate and finalize a host country agreement for convenin
ndertake further consultations on the hosting of those sessions , which will be held from monday , 6 november , to friday , 17 november 2017 ; 5. requests the subsidiary body for implementation , at its forty -fourth session , to consider the issue o f the host of the twenty -third session of the co
dertake further consult ations on the hosting of those sessions , which will be held from monday , 5 november , to friday , 16 november 2018 ; 8. requests the subsidiary body for implementation , at its forty -fourth session , to consider the issue of the host of the twenty -fourth session of the co
21 , underscoring the importance of inclusiveness , transparency and openness in the completion of the work programme resulting from the relevant requests contained in decision 1/cp.21 , stressing the urgency for the completion of the work programme under the paris agreement resulting from the relev
tained in decision 1/cp.21 , stressing the urgency for the completion of the work programme under the paris agreement resulting from the relevant requests contained in section iii of decision 1/cp.21 in order to accelerate its implementation , recognizing the need for a meaningful and successful out
tities of the financial mechani sm and the constituted bodies on progress in the implementation of the work programme resulting from the relevant requests contained in decision 1/cp.21 in accordance with their respective mandates ; fccc/cp/2016/ 10/add.1 3 7. also takes note of the invitation from t
 modalities and procedures for the operation and use of a public r egistry referred to in article 7 , paragraph 12 , of the paris agreement ; 10. requests the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice , the subsidiary body for implementation , the ad hoc working group on the paris agre
ry referred to in article 7 , paragraph 12 , of the paris agreement . ” 2 as footnote 1 above . fccc/cp/2016/ 10/add.1 4 iv . adaptation fund 14. requests the ad hoc working group on the paris agreement in its consid eration of the necessary preparatory work on the adaptation fund to address the gov
ional arrangements , safeguards and operating modalities for the adaptation fund to serve the paris agreement ; v. 2018 facilitative dialogue 16. requests the president of the conference of the parties at its twenty -secon d session , in collaboration with the incoming president of the conference of
, at its twenty -eighth meeting ; 22. takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the partnership referred to in paragraph 19 above and requests that the actions called for therein to be undertaken by the secretariat be subject to the availabi lity of financial resources . 10th plenary mee
 committee on capacity -building will manage and oversee the workplan for the pe riod 2016 –2020 outlined in decision 1/cp.21 , paragraph 73 ; 5. requests the paris committee on capacity -building to further develop and adopt its working modalities and procedures at its first meeting ; 6. also reque
uests the paris committee on capacity -building to further develop and adopt its working modalities and procedures at its first meeting ; 6. also requests the subsidiary body for implementation to organize the first meeting of the paris committee on capacity -building in conjunction with the forty -
s note of the budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat pursuant to the provisions contained in the annex ; 8. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in the annex be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . fccc/cp/2016/ 10/a
n comprehensive risk management and transformational approaches and the task force on displacement , and in outreach and information sharing ; 2. requests the executive committee to continue to implement activities from its initial two -year workp lan ; 2 3. approves the indicative framework for the
t the first meeting of the executive committee in 2017 , taking into account relevant inpu ts provided by parties and relevant organizations ; 4. requests the executive committee to include in its five -year rolling workplan a strategic workstream to guide the implementation of the warsaw internatio
for the five -year rolling workplan of the executive committee , with a focus on workstreams ( e ) , ( f ) and ( g ) , by 28 february 2017 ; 4 6. requests the executive comm ittee to include in its five -year rolling workplan relevant work for advancing the operationalization of the mandates ensuing
ites the paris committee on capac ity-building , within the scope of its workplan , to consider a future theme on addressing loss and damage ; 6. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 9th plenary me
tation committee at its twenty -second session with a view to adopting an appropriate decision on the outcome of this review,1 also recalling its requests for the adaptation committee to undertake activities in support of the paris agreement and the timing of their delivery,2 acknowledging that the 
ecis ion 1/cp.21 and access by developing country parties to adaptation finance , in particular from the green climate fund , as appropriate ; 4. requests the adaptation committee to make use of additional modalities for responding to the relevant mandates contained in decision 1/cp.21 , including e
standing committee on finance , the technology executive committee , the least developed countries expe rt group and observer constituencies ; 7. requests the adaptation committee , in conducting the technical examination process on adaptation , to accelerate the preparations for the 2017 technical 
on adaptation , to accelerate the preparations for the 2017 technical expert meetings on adaptation , including the selection of topics ; 8. also requests the adaptation committee to ens ure that the technical examination process on adaptation meets its objective of identifying concrete opportunitie
n its annual reports prepared for consideration by the conference of the parties , through the subsidiary bod ies , in the period 2012−2016 ; 10. requests the adaptation committee , as an outcome of this review , to continue with the implementation of its revised workplan , in particular by giving p
to make available sufficient resources for the successful and timely implementation of the three -year workplan of the adaptation committee ; 16. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decis ion , in particular in support of the revised workplan of the adaptation committee ,
ountry parties to access the funding referred to in paragraph 4 above in order to advance the formulation of their national adaptation plans ; 7. requests the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group to continue their respecti ve engagement with the green climate fund and 
 and urges developed country parties to continue to scale up mobilized climate finance towards this goal ; 4. also welcomes the progress made and requests parties to continue to enhance their enabling environments and policy frameworks to fa cilitate the mobilization and effective deployment of clim
es on updated strategies and approaches for scaling up climate finance from 2014 to 2020 in accordance with decision 3/cp.19 , paragraph 10 ; 10. requests the secretariat , in line with decision 5/ cp.20 , paragraph 11 , to prepare a compilation and synthesis of the biennial submissions referred to 
 programmes ; ( b ) roles of policies and enabling environments f or mitigation and adaptation finance ; ( c ) facilitating enhanced access ; 13. requests the secretariat to organize the in -session workshops referred to in paragraph 12 above and to prepare summary reports on these workshops for con
eferred to in paragraph 12 above and to prepare summary reports on these workshops for consideration by the conference of th e parties ; 14. also requests the secretariat to continue to ensure that the workshops are well - balanced by , inter alia , inviting both public and private sector actors to 
n workshops on long -term climate finance and the 2018 biennial ass essment and overview of climate finance flows ; fccc/cp/2016/ 10/add.1 18 16. requests the presidency of the conference of the parties , with the support of the secretariat , to prepare a summary of the third biennial high -level mi
nts of belgium , norway , sweden and switzerland as well as the european commission to support the work of the standing committee on finance ; 5. requests the standing committee on finance , in fulfilling its function on the measurement , reporting and veri fication of support , and in the context o
x viii . 3 see < http : //unfccc.int/8034.php > . 4 see document fccc/cp/2016/8 , annex iii , paragraphs 68 and 69. fccc/cp/2016/ 10/add.1 20 11. requests the standing committee on finance to report to the conference of the parties at its twenty -third session ( november 2017 ) on the progress made 
e conference of the parties at its twenty -third session ( november 2017 ) on the progress made in the implementation of its w orkplan ; 12. also requests the standing committee on finance to consider the guidance provided to it in other relevant decisions of the conference of the parties . fccc/cp/
f reference contain ed in the annex , for consideration by the subsidiary body for implementation at its forty -sixth session ( may 2017 ) ; 2 4. requests the subsidiary body for implementation , at its forty -sixth session , to initiate work on the review of the functions of the standi ng committee
in accordance with the terms of reference contained in the annex , taking into account the submissions referred to in paragraph 3 above ; 5. also requests the secretariat to prepare a technical paper on the review of the standing committee on finance , in accordance with the terms of reference conta
o in paragraph 3 above , for consideration by the subsidiary body for implementation at its forty -seventh session ( november 2017 ) ; 6. further requests the subsidiary body for implementation to comple te its work on the review of the standing committee on finance at its forty -seventh session wit
p.18 , 4/cp.19 , 7/cp.20 and 7/cp.21 : ( a ) the approval of usd 1.17 billion for 27 projects and program mes in 39 countries and the issuance of requests for proposals for modalities that enhanced direct access , worth up to usd 200 million , and the issuance of requests for proposals for micro , s
untries and the issuance of requests for proposals for modalities that enhanced direct access , worth up to usd 200 million , and the issuance of requests for proposals for micro , small and medium -sized enterprises worth up to usd 100 million ; ( b ) the accreditation of 41 entities to date , incl
 asia -pacific and eastern european regions , private sector ent ities , in particular those in developing countries , and entities responding to requests for proposals issued by the green climate fund ; ( c ) the adoption of the initial strategic plan for the green climate fund ; ( d ) decisions to
te fund but have not yet confirmed them through fully executed contribution arrangements or agreements to do so as a matter of high priority ; 6. requests the board to facilitate an increase in the amount of direct access proposals in the pipeline and to report to the conference of the parties on pr
in the amount of direct access proposals in the pipeline and to report to the conference of the parties on progress made in this regard ; 7. also requests the board to take into account decision 1/cp.21 , paragraph 64 , to enhance the coordination and delivery of resources to support country -driven
al report on the matter referred to in paragraph 8 above , in accordance with decision 7/cp.20 , paragraph 20 , and board decis ion b.08/24 ; 10. requests the board to enhance the delivery of resources by addressing those measures that are delaying th e implementation of projects that have been appr
 of the parties , their views and recommendations on the elements to be taken into account in developing guidance to the green climate fund ; 15. requests the standing committee on fin ance to take into consideration the submissions referred to in paragraph 14 above when preparing draft guidance to 
ed to in paragraph 14 above when preparing draft guidance to the green climate fund for consideration by the conference of the parties ; 16. also requests the green climate fund , as an operating entity of th e financial mechanism , to include in its annual report to the conference of the parties in
obust seventh replenishment , in order to assist in providing adequate and predictable funding taking into consideration the paris agreement ; 3. requests the global environment facility , as an operating entity of the financ ial mechanism of the convention , in its seventh replenishment programming
 movements , and the decision of the council of the global environment facility on item 6 on the agenda of the 51st meeting of the council ; 3 6. requests the global environment facilit y to continue its efforts , as appropriate and as needed , to minimize the potential consequences of the projected
on agreement by a country and encourages others that have pledged to make voluntar y contributions to finalize their contribution agreements ; 9. requests the global environment facility , as an operating entity of the financial mechanism of the convention , to continue providing in its annual repor
ys to support climate technology related projects through country allocations of the sixth replenishment of the global environment facility ; 12. requests the global environment facility , as an operat ing entity of the financial mechanism of the convention , to take into consideration climate risks
 of the “ program evaluation of the least developed countries fund ” by the global environment facility ’ s independent evaluation office ; 7 15. requests the global environment facility , as t he operating entity of the financial mechanism of the convention entrusted with the operation of the least
sccf-20-me- 02.pdf > . fccc/cp/2016/ 10/add.1 40 17. welcomes the initial assessment of the accreditation pilot and notes its conclusions ; 8 18. requests the global environment facility , as an operating entity of the financial mechanism of the convention , in light of the entry into force of the p
arties , their views and recommendations on the elements to be taken into account in developing guidance to the global environment facility ; 21. requests the standing committee on finance to take into consideration the submissions referred to in paragraph 20 above when providing draft guidance to t
paragraph 20 above when providing draft guidance to the global environment facility for consideration by the conference of the parties ; 22. also requests the global environment facility to include in its annual report to the conference of the parties information on the st eps that it has taken to i
the financial mechanism , 1. decides to adopt the updated g uidelines for the sixth review of the financial mechanism contained in the annex ; 2. requests the standing committee on finance to provide , in its report to the twenty - third session of the conference of the parties ( november 2017 ) , e
ountry parties , and that other parties providing resources are encouraged to communicate biennially such information on a voluntary basis ; 1 2. requests the secre tariat to organize a round -table discussion among parties on this matter in conjunction with the forty -sixth sessions of the subsidia
ound -table discussion among parties on this matter in conjunction with the forty -sixth sessions of the subsidiary bodies ( may 2017 ) ; 3. also requests the secretariat to prepare a summary report of the round -table discussion referred to i n paragraph 2 above for consideration by the conference 
dge tary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat pursuant to the provisions contained in paragraphs 2 and 3 above ; 6. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 10th plenary m
ity an d the climate technology centre to enhance their collaboration with respect to exploring new ways of supporting climate technology related requests for technical assistance ; 13. underlines the importance of well -functioning and strengthened collaboration betw een the national designated aut
utilizing the readiness and preparatory support programme and the project preparation facility of the fund in order to respond to country -driven requests for technical assistance ; 16. encourages the advancement of the en gagement referred to in paragraph 15 above , including through the strengthen
the budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat pursuant to th e provisions contained in paragraph 4 above ; 14. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 9th plenary me
rovide , or to continue to provide , financial resources to support activities related to the implementation of article 6 of the convention ; 11. requests the global environment facility to continue to provide financial resources to parties not included in annex i to the conv ention , in particular 
 ; ( d ) disseminating information and resource materials , as well as good practices , on the six elements of article 6 of the conve ntion ; 13. requests the secretariat : ( a ) to continue facilitating a regular exchange of views , good practices and lessons learned among the national focal points
akes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undert aken by the secretariat referred to in paragraph 1 3 above ; 16. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 9th plenary me
ations from parties not included in annex i to the convention as contained in decision 19/cp.19 and the annex thereto shall remain unchanged ; 2. requests the subsidiary body for implementation , at its forty -eighth session ( april – may 2018 ) , to consider a review of the term and mandate , inclu
ing a draft decision thereon for consideration and adoption by the conference of the parties at its twenty -fourth session ( december 2018 ) ; 3. requests the secretariat to facilitate the actions of the consultative group of exper ts called for in paragraph 1 above , subject to the availability of 
cus on training and capacity -building for delegates from parties that are particularly vulnerable to t he adverse effects of climate change ; 9. requests the secretariat to continue to support the organization of the training and capacity -building efforts referred to in paragraphs 7 and 8 above , 
n -session workshops will be held in conjunction with the sessions of the subsidiary bodies in the first s essional period of 2018 and 2019 ; 12. requests the subsidiary body for implementation to elaborate the topics for the workshops referred to in paragraph 11 above during 2017 and to report on t
ort on the topics that it recommends for the workshops to the conference of the parties at its twenty -third session ( november 2017 ) ; 13. also requests the secretariat to prepare a technical paper identifying entry points for integrating gender considerations in workstreams under the unfccc proce
r the unfccc process for consideration by the subsidiary b ody for implementation at its forty -eighth session ( april – may 2018 ) ; 14. further requests all constituted bodies under the unfccc process to include in their regular reports information on progress made towards integrating a gender per
 a gender perspective in their process es according to the entry points identified in the technical paper referred to in paragraph 13 above ; 15. requests the secretariat to prepare biennial synthesis reports on the information contained in the reports referred to in paragraph 14 above for considera
phs 111 and 129 ; 17. invites parties to mainstream a gender perspective in the enhancement of climate techn ology development and transfer ; 18. requests the secretariat , if updating the accreditation process for the parties , to improve , as appropriate , the accuracy of data on the gender of the
d ing accurate data to assess progress made on the participation of women delegates in unfccc meetings and those of constituted bodies ; 19. also requests the secretariat to continue to prepare an annual report on gender composition in accordance with decisions 23/cp.18 and 18/cp.20 ; 20. further re
ts the secretariat to continue to prepare an annual report on gender composition in accordance with decisions 23/cp.18 and 18/cp.20 ; 20. further requests the secretariat to undertake research and analysis on challenges to the full and equal participation of women in climate -related processes and a
16 and 23/cp.18 , based on submissions and its own research for consideration by the conference of the parties at its twenty -third session ; 21. requests the financial mechanism and its operating entities to include in their respective annual reports t o the conference of the parties information on
on of climate policy and to recognize the value of the participation of grassroots women in gender -responsive climate action at all levels ; 25. requests the secretariat to maintain and regularly update its web pages7 for sharing information on women ’ s participation and on gender -responsive clim
rk related to integrating a gender perspective in the activities and work under the convention , the kyoto protocol and the paris agreement ; 27. requests the subsidiary body for implementation to develop a gender action plan in order to support the implementation of gender -related decisions and ma
 subsidiary bodies ( may 2017 ) , in order to provide inputs to the formulation of the gender action plan referred to in paragraph 27 above ; 29. requests the secretariat to c onvene , in cooperation with parties and interested observers and other stakeholders , an in -session workshop during the fo
8 31. takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in this decision ; 32. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources ; 33. invites pa
g in mind that contributions are due on 1 january of each year in accordance with the financial procedures for the conference of the parties ; 6. requests the s ecretariat to explore options on ways to address outstanding contributions to the core budget , for the consideration of the subsidiary bod
cc/sbi/2016/inf.15 and fccc/sbi/2016/inf.19 . 3 fccc/sbi/2016/13 . 4 fccc/sbi/2016/inf.19 . 5 fccc/sbi/2016/inf.15 . fccc/ cp/2016/10/add.2 23 9. requests the secretariat to explore options for increasing the flexibility of the funds in the trust fund for supplementary activities , for the considera
ach to the development of the programme budget taking into account the core budget and activities to be funded from voluntary contributions ; 18. requests the executive secretary to gradually enhance the transparency of the budget process through the provision of additional documentation , as outlin
provision of additional documentation , as outlined in document fccc/sbi/2016/inf.14 , paragraph 17 , in the official budget documents ; 19. also requests the executiv e secretary to pursue other possible ways to increase the efficiency and transparency of the budget process as outlined in document 
ry implications of the activities to be undertake n by the secretariat pursuant to the provisions contained in paragraph s 18 and 1 9 above ; 21. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 6 fccc/sbi/201
rred to in paragraph 1 above ; 3. decides that the sessions referred to in paragraph 1 above will be convened at the seat of the secretariat ; 4. requests the executive secretary to make the neces sary arrangements for convening the sessions referred to in paragraph 1 above at the seat of the secret
g those for the funding of such sessions ; 6. notes the high costs associated with convening sessions of the supreme bodies of the convention and requests the subsidiary body for implementation to consider this matter at its forty -sixth session ( may 2017 ) i n the context of arrangements for inter
states ; 9. decides to accept with appreciation the offer by the government of poland to host the sessions referred to in paragraph 7 above ; 10. requests the executive secretary to consult with the government of poland and to negotiate and finalize a host country agreement for convening the session
ent not later than the twenty -third session of the conference of the parties ( november 2017 ) to allow for its prompt implementation ; 11. also requests the executive secretary to provide the host country with technical support and guidance on unfccc polices and requirements , taking into account 
caribbean states ; 13. invites parties to undertake further consultations on the hosting of the sess ions referred to in paragraph 12 above ; 14. requests the subsidiary body for implementation , at its forty -sixth session , to consider the issue of the host of the sessions referred to in parag rap
in the report referred to in paragraph 25 above in their discussions under all relevant agenda items of the subsidiary and governing bodies ; 28. requests the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice to consider at its fiftieth session ( june 2019 ) the report referred to in paragraph
s 51. takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in this decision ; 52. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 9th plenary me
 ) seven representatives from indigenous peoples organizations , one from each of the seven united nations indigenous sociocultural regi ons ; 4. requests the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice to consider , in the context of the review referred to in paragraph 27 below , and ta
ppropriate , aiming at enhancing the coherence of the actions of the local communities and indigenous peoples platform under the convention ; 21. requests the secretariat , with the support of the facilitative working group , to make the work of the local communities and indigenous peoples platform 
uding through the development of a dedicated web portal on the local communities and indigenous peoples platform on the unfccc website ; 22. also requests the secretariat to organize a thematic in -session workshop , in conjunction with the fiftieth session ( june 2019 ) of the subsidiary body for s
 ommunities , in addition to indigenous peoples , in the local communities and indigenous peoples platform ; fccc/cp/2018/10/add.1 11 23. further requests the secretariat to develop , under the incremental approach for the operationalization of the local communities and indigenous peoples platform ,
ites parties , observers and other stakeholders to submit their views on possible activities via the submission portal2 by 28 february 2019 ; 24. requests the facilitative working group to report on its outcomes , including a draft second three -year workplan , and on the activities of the local com
h session ( may –june 2021 ) ; 25. decides to endorse the draft w orkplan referred to in paragraph 24 above at its twenty - seventh session ; 26. requests the secretariat to make the report s referred to in paragraph 24 above publicly available on the unfccc website ; 27. decides that the subsidiary
above ; 29. further decides that the meetings of the facilitative working group shall be open to parties and observers under the convention ; 30. requests the secretariat to support and facili tate the work of the facilitative working group ; 31. takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of
 takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in paragraph 30 above ; 32. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this dec ision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources ; 33. invites i
rdance with decision 3/cp.19 , paragraph 10,2 and urges those developed country parties that have not yet done so to submit this information ; 6. requests the secretariat , in line with decision 5/cp.20 , paragraph 11 , to prepare a compilation and synthesis of the biennial submissions referred to i
elow ; 7. welcomes the progress of parties ’ efforts to strengthen their domestic enabling environments in order to attract climate finance , and requests parties to continue to enhance their enabling environments and policy frameworks to facilitate the mobilization and effect ive deployment of clim
well below 2 ºc above pre -industrial levels and pursuing efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1 .5 ºc above pre -industrial levels ; 10. requests the secretariat to organize the in -session workshops referred to in paragraph 9 above and to prepare summary reports on the workshops for consid
 the conference of the parties at its twenty -fifth session ( december 2019 ) and twenty -sixth session ( november 2020 ) respectively ; 11. also requests the secretariat to continue to ensure that the workshops are well - balanced by , inter alia , inviting both public and private sector actors to 
committee on finance to take into account the best available science in future biennial assessment s and ov erviews of climate finance flows ; 5. requests the standing committee on finance to use in the biennial assessment and overview of climate finance flows the established terminology in the prov
mes the decision of the standing committee on finance on the topic of its 2019 forum , which will be climate finance and sustainable cities ; 10. requests the standing committee on finance to map , every four years , as part of its biennial assessment and overview of climate finance flows , the avai
 5 12. confirms the mandates in arti cle 11 , paragraph 3 ( d ) , of the convention , and decisions 12/cp.2 , 12/cp.3 , 5/cp.19 and 1/cp.21 ; 13. requests the standing committee on finance to prepare , every four years , a report on the determination of the needs of developing country parties relate
ference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement , startin g at its third session ( november 2020 ) ; 14. also requests the standing committee on finance , in preparing the report referred to in paragraph 13 above , to collaborate , as appropriate , with the operat
 the financial mechanism , the subsidiary and constituted bodies , multilateral and bilateral channels , and observer organizations ; 15. further requests that the actions of the standing committee on finance called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resource
nce to report to the conference of the parties at its twenty -fifth session ( december 2019 ) on progress in implementing its workplan ; 17. also requests the standing committee on finance to consider the guidance provided to it in other relevant decisions of the conference of the parties . fccc/cp/
) the decision of the board5 on financial planning in 2019 a nd the allocation of up to usd 600 million to fund projects submitted in response to requests for proposals and pilot programmes , including the requests for “ proposals on redd -plus results -based payments ” , mobilizing funds at scale ,
 nd the allocation of up to usd 600 million to fund projects submitted in response to requests for proposals and pilot programmes , including the requests for “ proposals on redd -plus results -based payments ” , mobilizing funds at scale , micro , small and medium -sized enterprises , enhanced dire
ative policy approaches , such as joint mitigation and adaptation approaches for the integral and sustainable management of forests ; 6 ( e ) the requests for proposals to support climate technology incubators and accelerators , in accordance with board decision b.18/03 ; 4. urges the board to conti
f the parties ( december 2019 ) , their views and recommendations on elements to be taken into account in developing guidance for the board ; 10. requests the standing c ommittee on finance to take into consideration the submissions referred to in paragraph 9 above when preparing its draft guidance 
ns referred to in paragraph 9 above when preparing its draft guidance for the board for consideration by the conference of the parties ; 11. also requests the board to include in its annual report to t he conference of the parties information on the steps that it has taken to implement the guidance 
ights the importance of enhancing country ownership in the impact programmes of the seventh replenishment of the global environment facility ; 7. requests the global environment facility , as appropriate , to ensure that its policies and procedures related to the consideration and review of funding 
 transparency in the seventh replenishment of the global environment facility , which enhances predictability of funding for the initiative ; 12. requests the global environment facility t o continue to manage the capacity - building initiative for transparency to fund a diversity of countries and r
d.1 33 strategic programme on technology transfer ’ s c limate technology and finance centres and the climate technology centre and network ; 14. requests the global environment facility to continue t o monitor the geographic and thematic coverage , as well as the effectiveness , efficiency and enga
n6 to begin the process of developing improved fiduciary standards , including anti -money -laundering and counter - terrorism finance policy and requests the global environment facility to include updates on this work in its report to the conference of the parties at its twenty -fifth session ( dec
ment facility to include updates on this work in its report to the conference of the parties at its twenty -fifth session ( december 2019 ) ; 18. requests the global environment facility to review and , if necessary , update or adopt policies for preventing sexual harassment and the abuse of authori
 parties , their views and recommen dations on elements to be taken into account in developing guidance for the global environment facility ; 20. requests the standing committee on finance to take into consideration the submissions referred to in paragraph 19 above when preparing its draft guidance 
raph 19 above when preparing its draft guidance for the global environment facility for consideration by the conference of the parties ; 21. also requests the glob al environment facility to include in its annual report to the conference of the parties information on the steps that it has taken to i
ional adaptation plans ; 16. notes that gaps and needs related to the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans remain ; 6 17. requests the least de veloped countries expert group , within its existing mandate and workplan , to consider gaps and needs related to the process to for
ude relevant information thereon in its report to the subsidiary body for implementation at its fifty -first session ( december 2019 ) ; 18. also requests the adaptation committee , through its task force on national adaptation plans and within its existing mandate and workplan , to consider gaps an
group and the adaptation committee and how to address them , and include relevant information thereon in its annual report for 2019 ; 19. further requests the subsidiary body for implementation to specify the actions and steps necessary to assess progress in the process to formulate and implement na
hare case studies of initiatives that focus on ecosystems and adaptation planning for vulnerable communities and groups as agents of change ; 13. requests that the case studies referred to in paragraph 12 above be disse minated on the adaptation knowledge portal of the nairobi work programme on impa
to make available sufficient resources for the adaptation committee ’ s successful and timely implementation of its workplan for 2019 –2021 ; 17. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 12th plenary m
2 11. takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in this decision ; 12. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the avai lability of financial resources . fccc/cp/2018/
t starting from 1 january 2019 to support the implementation of the enhanced transparency fr amework under article 13 of the paris agreement ; 5. requests the subsidiary body for implementation , at its fiftieth session ( june 2019 ) , to review and revise the terms of reference of the consultative 
mending a draft decision for consideration and adoption by the conference of the parties at its twenty -fifth session ( december 2019 ) ; 6. also requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 9th plenary me
ology centre and network to enhance the provision of support for strengthening the capacity of national designated entities , as appropriate ; 6. requests the climate technology centre and network to include in the joint annual report of the techno logy executive committee and the climate technology
esponse to the relevant recom mendations referred to in paragraph 1 above , taking into account parties ’ deliberations at this session ; 7. also requests the secretariat to organize a dialogue , in conjunction with the fifty -fifth session of the subsidiary body for implementation ( november 2021 )
t should be provided , recalling decision 2/cp.17 , paragraphs 139 and 141 ; 15. also notes that an increasing number of the technical assistance requests submitted to the c limate technology centre and network are directly related to recommendations and priorities identified in technology needs ass
to using the readiness and preparatory support programme of the fund , and notes with appreciation the support provided by the fund for readiness requests submitted by national designated authorities ; 4. invites the climate technology centre and network and the green climate fund to continue enhanc
 terms of reference for a request for proposals to support climate technology incubators and accelerators , in response to decision 13/cp.21 ; 9. requests the subsidiary body for implementation , at its fifty -third session ( november 2020 ) , to take stock of pro gress in strengthening the linkages
capacity -building activities for the implementation of nationally determined co ntributions in the context of the paris agreement in 2019 ; 2 6. requests the subsidiary body for implementation to thematically align future meetings of the durban forum with the annual focus area of the paris committe
reen climate fund , and other bilateral and mu ltilateral sources within their respective mandates , and the private sector , as appropriate ; 5. requests the least developed countries expert group to support , and encourages other relevant bodies and programmes under and outside the convention and 
he implementation of the least developed countries work programme and to include information on this in their reports , as appropria te ; 6. also requests the least developed countries expert group to continue considering ways to promote south –south cooperation in the implementation of the least de
s on the matter and to inform the bureau of the outcome of the consultations ; 3. invites the bureau to decide on the dates of the sessi ons ; 4. requests the executive secretary to continue consultations with the government of chile and to negotiate and finalize a host country agreement for conveni
ng the host country agreement not later than the fiftieth sessions of the subsidiary bodies ( june 2019 ) for its prompt implementation ; 5. also requests the executive secretary to provide the host country with technical support and guidance on unfccc policies and requirements , taking into account
an and other states ; 7. invites parties to undertake further consultat ions on the hosting of the sessions referred to in paragraph 6 above ; 8. requests the subsidiary body for implementation , at its fiftieth session , to consider the issue of the host of the sessions referred to in paragraph 6 a
voluntary contribution to the core budget of eur 766,938 and its special contribution of eur 1,789,522 as host government of the secretariat ; 9. requests the executive secretary to take further measures to recover outstanding contributions and encourages parties to pay those outstanding contributio
o expresses its appreciation to the auditors for the valuable observations and recommendations and the presentation made thereon to parties ; 13. requests the executive secretary to implement the re commendations of the auditors , as appropriate , in particular those related to outstanding contribut
ties , with a view to reducing redundancies and increasing cost -efficiency , in the context of the programme budget for 2020 –2021 ; 15. further requests the executive secretary to prepare , regularly update and publish before each session of the subsidiary bodies brief reports on standard costs an
f the subsidiary bodies brief reports on standard costs and , if available , options for reducing the co st of activities where practicable ; 16. requests the executive secretary to provide budgetary cost implications in pre - session documents if they include suggestions for new mandates to the sec
e suggestions for new mandates to the secretariat and if sufficient information is available on the details of the proposed activities ; 17. also requests the executive secretary to provide any other such information to parties as may be required to ensure that the budgetary implications of decision
arty stakeholders to submit inputs via the submission portal4 by september 2020 to inform the round table referred to in paragraph 19 above ; 21. requests the secretariat to prepare a summary repor t by september 202 1 on the basis of the outcomes of the round table referred in paragraph 19 above to
ual ly a high-level event together with the executive secretary and the incumbent and i ncoming presidents of the conference of the parties ; 28. requests the high-level champions to explore how to improv e the work under the marrakech partnership for global climate action for enhancing ambition tak
gral part of the earth ’ s climate system , and of ensuring the integrity of ocean and coastal ecosystems in the context of c limate change ; 31. requests the chair of the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice to convene at its fifty -second session ( june 2020 ) a dialogue on the 
ty stakeholders to submit inputs via the submission portal by 31 march 2020 to inform the dialogue s referred to in paragraph s 31–32 above ; 34. requests the chair of the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice to prepare informal summa ry report s on the dialogue s referred to in p
; 35. takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in this decision ; 36. requests that the actions of the secretariat called fo r in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 8th plenary m
o appoint and provide support for a national gender and climate change focal point for climate negotiations , implementation and monitoring ; 12. requests all constituted bodi es to continue to include in their regular reports information on progress towards integrating a gender perspective into the
nt public and private entities to increase the gender -responsiveness of climate finance with a view to strengthening the capacity of women ; 15. requests the secretariat to continue to : ( a ) maintain the position of senior gender focal point to retain relevant expertise and support and monitor th
ken by the secretariat referred to in paragraph 1 5 above and activities a.1 –5 , b.1 –3 , c.1 –3 , d.1 – 3 and 6 , and e.1 –2 in the annex ; 19. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources.fccc/cp/2019/13/
ith the implementation of national adaptation plans , as requested by the subsidiary body for implementation at its forty -seventh session ; 3 3. requests the a daptation committee , through its task force on national adaptation plans , and the least developed countries expert group to continue to i
ages/national -adaptation -plans.aspx . 2 as per decision 8/cp.24 , paras . 17–18 . 3 fccc/sbi/2017/19 , para . 73 . fccc /cp/2019/13/add.2 3 11. requests the subsidiary body for implementation , at its fifty -third session ( n ovember 2020 ) , to consider information from the reports of the a dapta
or five years and to review its progress and need for extension at the thirtieth session of the conference of the parties ( november 2024 ) ; 13. requests the subsidiary body for implementation to initiate at i ts fifty -eighth session ( june 2023 ) the preparation of the terms of reference for the 
 with a view to the conference of the parties agreeing on the final terms of reference at its twenty -ninth sessio n ( november 2023 ) ; 14. also requests the paris committee on capacity -building to extend its current rolling workplan to the end of 2020 ; 15. further requests the paris committee on
mber 2023 ) ; 14. also requests the paris committee on capacity -building to extend its current rolling workplan to the end of 2020 ; 15. further requests the paris committee on capacity -building to develop a workplan for the period of its extension on the basis of the priority areas and activities
eas and activities contained in the annex for consideration by the conference of the parties at its twenty -sixth session ( november 2020 ) ; 16. requests that the workplan referred to in paragraph 15 above include core elements such as pr iority areas , activities , d eliverables , timelines and ex
, activities , d eliverables , timelines and expected results , in accordance with the priority areas referred to in paragraph 9 above ; 17. also requests the paris committee on capacity -building to report on the expected work under its workplan and on the progress , outcomes , im pacts and effecti
des the fourth comprehensive review of the implementation of the capacity - building framework under the convention ; fccc/cp/2019/13/add.2 9 14. requests the subsidiary body for implementation to develop terms of reference for the fifth comprehensive r eview of the implementation of the capacity -b
tieth session ( june 2024 ) for consideration and adoption by the conference of the parties at its thirtieth session ( november 2024 ) ; 15. also requests the subsidiary b ody for implementation to in itiate the fifth comprehensive review of the implementation of the capacity -building framework und
 of the parties ( novem ber 2021 ) , noting decision 5/cma.2 , with a view to concluding it at its twenty -eighth session ( november 2022 ) ; 18. requests the standing committee on finance to report to the conference of the parties at its twenty -sixth session ( november 2020 ) on progress in implem
nce to report to the conference of the parties at its twenty -sixth session ( november 2020 ) on progress in implementing its workplan ; 19. also requests that the actions of the standing committee on finance called for in this decisi on be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resourc
measures taken in this regard in its report to the conference of the parties ; 7. welcomes the a pproval of the board ’ s four-year work plan and requests the board to complete its work on closing policy gaps , streamlining and simplifying approval processes , including for readiness support and nat
r the green cli mate fund and its offi cials through a possible institutional linkage between the united nations and the green climate fund , and requests the president to report on this engagement at its twenty -sixth session ( november 2020 ) ; 10. decides to continue its consideration of th e mat
uidance for the board via the submission portal4 no later than 10 weeks prior to the twenty -sixth session of the conference of the parties ; 12. requests the standing committee on finance to take into consideration the submissions referred to in paragraph 11 above when preparing its draft guidance 
ration by the conference of the parties and the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement ; 13. also requests the board to include in its annual report to the conference of the parties information on the steps it has taken to implem ent the guidance provi
ication and/or nationally determined contributions ; 19. encourages the green climat e fund to continue to enhance its support for adaptation and requests the green climate fund to : ( a ) swiftly conclude its work on guidance on the approach and scope for providing support to adaptation activities 
imate fund , to report on lessons learned in supporting developing c ountries in collecting and managing information and data on adaptation ; 10. requests the global environment facility , in administering the least developed countries fund , to continue facilitating the smooth transition of countri
cility in response to the guidance received from the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement ; 13. requests the global environment facility , as an operating entity of the financial mechanism , under its seventh replenishment and throughout its reple ni
er 2020 ) , their views and recommendations on elements to be taken into account in developing guidance to the gl obal environment facility ; 15. requests the standing committee on finance to take into consideration the submissions re ferred to in paragraph 14 above when preparing its draft guidance
gy executive committee to continue the efforts referred to in paragraph 10 above to enhance the visibility of and seek feedback on its work , and requests the technology executive committee to report on such efforts ; 12. notes the initiative of the tech nology executive committee , under its rollin
of the climate technology centre an d network with relevant stakeholders , including the private sector , in implementi ng their activities , and requests the climate technology centre and network to enhance this collaboration ; 19. invites the climate technology centre and network to enhance engage
 climate te chnology centre and network to mobilize resources for implementing its functions , including pro bono and in-kind contributions ; 22. requests the climate technology centre and network to analyse its experience and lessons l earned with regard to pro bono and in -kind contributions , inc
 climate technology centre and network so as to facilitate its effective functioning , in accordance with this memora ndum of understanding ; 26. requests the climate technology centre and network to : ( a ) enhance its resource mobilization efforts and further diversify the sources , including by e
decision makers , scientists , the media , teachers , youth , women and indigenous peoples , play in ensuring action for climate empowerment , 1. requests the subsidiary body for implementation , at i ts fifty -second session ( june 2020 ) , to launch the review of the implementation of the doha wor
e the implementation of article 6 of the convention and ar ticle 12 of the paris agreement , following the review of the doha work programme ; 5. requests the secretariat to organize the 8th in-session dialogue on action for climate empowerment in 2020 to advance the discussions on recommendations a
dd.2 21 6. takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in the annex ; 7. requests that the ac tions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . fccc/cp/2019/
 partnership of the government of the united kingdom with t he government of italy , which will host the preparatory events for the sessions ; 3. requests the executive secretary to continue consultations with the government of the united kingdom and to negotiate and finalize a host country agreemen
 agreement no later than the f ifty-second sessions of the subsidiary bodies ( june 2020 ) so as to allow for its prompt implementation ; 4. also requests the executive secretary to provide the host coun try with technical support and guidance on unfccc policies and requirements , taking into a ccou
m the african states ; 6. invites parties to undertake further consultations on the hosting of the sessions referred to in paragraph 5 above ; 7. requests the subsidiary body for implementation , at its fifty -second session , to consider the issue of the host of the sessions referred to in paragrap
tributions to the trust fund for supplementary activities with a view to enabling the implementation of activities envisaged under the fund ; 21. requests the secretariat to continue to seek efficiencies and streamline administrative services in order to save costs in the biennium 2020 –2021 and to 
e biennium 2020 –2021 and to report thereon at t he fifty- fourth session of the subsidiary body for implementation ( may –june 2021 ) ; 22. also requests the executive secretary to report to the conferenc e of the parties at its twenty -sixth session ( november 2020 ) on income and budget performan
t guidance from parties , and to propose any adjustments that might be needed to the programme budget f or the bie nnium 2020 –2021 ; 23. further requests the executive secretary to prepare a biennial final report on the implementation of the core budget and the supplementary budget , covering the p
oluntary contribution to the core budget of eu r 766,938 and its special contribution of eur 1,789,522 as host government of the secretariat ; 9. requests the executive secretary to take further measures to recover outstanding contributions and encourages parties to pay those outstanding contributio
tors , as appropriate , including those outstanding from the 2017 audit report , and to update parties on progress in the next audit report ; 14. requests the executive s ecretary in her update to parties on progress towards implementing the recommendation of the auditors to provide expected timelin
andates : standard costs , prepared for consideration at the fiftieth and fifty -first sessions of the subsidiary body for implementation ; 6 18. requests the secretariat to implement the recommendations contained in document fccc/sbi/2019/inf.4 ; 19. also requests the secretariat to report on its e
ry body for implementation ; 6 18. requests the secretariat to implement the recommendations contained in document fccc/sbi/2019/inf.4 ; 19. also requests the secretariat to report on its efforts to further improve the efficiency and transparen cy of the unfccc budget p rocess and documentation for 
ring issues related t o agriculture , and to promote the sharing of information and knowledge on best practices and means of implementation ; 14. requests the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice and the subsidiary body for implementation to establish the four -year sharm el -shei
plementing national policies , plans and strategies related to climate change , while recognizing country -specific needs and contexts ; 15. also requests the secretariat to support the joint work referred to in paragraph 14 above by : ( a ) preparing an annual synthesis report on the work undertake
o fighting hunger on the ground , addressing in particular the needs of women , children , youth , indigenous peoples and local communities ; 20. requests the subsidiary bodies to report to the conference of the parties at its thirty -first session ( 2026 ) on the progress and outcomes of the joint 
 takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in paragraph 15 above ; 22. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 10 th plenary 
multilateral assessment for parties included in annex i to the convention , taking into account decision 1/cp.24 , paragraphs 39 , 41 and 44 ; 2. requests the subsidiary body for implementation to consider undertaking no later than at its first session of 2028 , as appropriate , the review of the mo
ve sharing of views for parties not included in annex i to the convention , taking into account decision 1/cp.24 , paragraphs 39 , 41 and 44 ; 2. requests the subsidiary body for implementation to consider undertaking no later than at its first session of 2028 , as appr opriate , the review of the m
formation on the values of the metrics used and the intergovernmental panel on climate change assessment report from which they were sourced ; 4. requests the secretariat to enable , by 30 january 2023 , an option to the current crf reporter for generating common reporting format tables using the 10
 ( eds. ) . cambridge and new york : cambridge university press . availabl e at http : //www.ipcc.ch/report/ar5/wg1 . fccc/cp/2022/10/add.1 24 7. requests the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice to r evisit this matter at its sixty -first session ( november 2024 ) should there be
ith the implementation of national adaptation plans , as requested by the subsidiary body for implementation at its forty- seventh session ; 9 7. requests the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group to continue to identify the priority gaps and needs of developing countri
response to decision 8/cp.24 , paras . 17–18 , and decision 7/cp.25 , para . 3 . 9 fccc/sbi/2017/19 , para . 73. fccc/cp/2022/10/add.1 28 8. also requests the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group to enhance their work in addressing the priority gaps and needs , obstacl
es and challenges identified through their work referred to in paragraph 5 above and to include information thereon in their reports ; 9. further requests the adaptation committee and the least develop ed countries expert group to organize training for developing country parties on addressing identi
term of two years ; “ 13 . also decides that the members of the advisory board shall remain in office until their successors are elected ; “ 14 . requests the advisory board to develop draft rules of procedure4 with a view to recommending them to the governing body or bodies through the subsidiary b
hrough the subsidiary bodies for consideration and adoption at the sixty- first sessions of the subsidiary bodies ( november 2024 ) ; “ 15 . also requests the secretariat to continue providing support for developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change 
f organizations , bodies , networks and experts as members of the santiago network ; ( b ) developing guidelines and procedures for responding to requests for technical assistance , including considering the development of procedures for those that require an urgent response ; ( c ) developing guide
d neutral manner in accordance with the process outlined in paragraphs 19– 23 below , informed by united nations practices and standards ; “ 19 . requests the secretariat , under the guidance of the chairs of the subsidiary bodies , to : ( a ) prepare and issue a call for proposals to host the santi
uding in particular the adaptation committee and the facilitative working group of the local communities and indigenous peoples platform ; “ 22 . requests the evaluation panel to prepare an evaluation report with a shortlist of up to three proposals that meet the criteria referred to in annex ii , i
 , and make the evaluation report available for consideration by the subsidiary bodies at their fifty-eighth sessions ( june 2023 ) ; “ 23 . also requests the subsidiary bodies to recommend at their fifty- eighth sessions a draft decision with one proposal to host the santiago network secretariat th
 ii for consideration and a doption by the governing body or bodies at their session ( s ) to be held in november –december 2023 ; “ 24 . further requests the secretariat , under the guidance of the chairs of the subsidiary bodies , to develop a draft host agreement ( memorandum of understanding ) w
 . takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in this decision ; “ 30 . requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial res ources . ” 2. notes th
ttee , as well as exploring synergies with other initiatives and networks ; ( c ) receiving , assessing and managing the process of responding to requests from developing countries that are particularly v ulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change for technical assistance to avert , minimize
h ) endorse the financial statement of the santiago network ; ( i ) review the timeliness and quality of the responses of the santiago network to requests for technical assistance ; ( j ) provide guidance on and approve the criteria used to assure the relevance and quality of expertise and services 
ctivities of the santiago network secretariat and network and on the performance of their respective functions , including information on : ( a ) requests received and activities carried out by the santiago network a nd their outcomes ; ( b ) responses to requests ; ( c ) ongoing work as well as les
 , including information on : ( a ) requests received and activities carried out by the santiago network a nd their outcomes ; ( b ) responses to requests ; ( c ) ongoing work as well as lessons learned and best practices derived from that work ; ( d ) support delivered in regions , finance disburse
e santiago network , including , inter alia , sustainability and sources of funding , adequacy of funding levels relative to technical assistance requests , timeliness , effectiveness , engagement , gender -responsiveness and delivery of technical assistance to communities particularly vulnerable to
effects of climate change ; “ 3 . encourages the organizations and experts to continue to contribute as referred to in paragraph 2 a bove ; “ 4 . requests the ex ecutive com mittee to continue : ( a ) exploring further opportunities and modalities for engaging national stakeholders , including loss 
ollaborating and enhancing synergies with programmes , bodies and platforms under and outside the convention and the paris agreement ; “ 5 . also requests the executive committee , with regard to information relating to averting , minimizing and addressing loss and damage , to continue collaborating
ort to developing country parties for enhancing their institutional and technical capacity to prepare and submit national reports ; “ 6 . further requests the secretariat , in responding to paragraph 11 of decision 19/cma.3 , and endorsed in decision 17/cp.26 , to make public the requests it receive
 . further requests the secretariat , in responding to paragraph 11 of decision 19/cma.3 , and endorsed in decision 17/cp.26 , to make public the requests it receives 1 fccc/sb/2022/2 and add.1– 2 . 2 as footnote 1 above . 3 contained in document fccc/sb/2022/2/add.2 , annexes i –iii . fccc/cp/2022/
s note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 1– 6 above ; “ 9 . requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financi al resources. ” 2. notes tha
the need for further efforts to e nhance access to climate finance , including through harmonized , simplified and direct access procedures ; 10. requests parties to continue enhancing their enabling environments and policy frameworks to facilitate the mobilization and effective deployment of cl ima
and multilateral , including alternative sources , and recognizes the lack of a common definition and accounting methodology in this regard ; 15. requests the standing committee on finance to prep are biennial reports , including a summary of key findings , on progress towards achieving the goal of 
mobilized by developed country parties through bilateral and multilateral channels , and finance in sectors other than energy and transport , and requests further work in this regard in the sixth biennial assessment , including in relation to data by region , private finance mobilized from public in
nance in use by parties and non -party stakeholders in re lation to ensuring clear , aggregated accounting and reporting of climate finance ; 11. requests the standing committee on finance to prepare a report for consideration by the conference of the parties at its twenty -eighth session ( november
es of the financial mechanism prepared by the standing committee on finance7 was not utilized by the conference of the parties and in this regard requests the committee to improve its working modalities for preparing the draft guidance for the operating entities of the financial mechanism ; 14. expr
en courages the standing committee on finance to continue to enhance its efforts to ensure gender responsiveness in implementing its workplan and requests parties to consider gender balance and geographical representation when nominating members to the commit tee ; 20. encourages the standing commit
ect the views of parties in its future reports and ensure that those views are presented in a balanced manner that reflects their diversity ; 21. requests the standing committee on finance to report to the conference of the parties at its twenty -eighth session on its progress in implementing its wo
finance to report to the conference of the parties at its twenty -eighth session on its progress in implementing its workplan for 2023 ; 22. also requests the standing committee on finance to consider the guidance provided to it in other relevant decisions of the conference of the parties . 5 https 
 of reference contained i n the annex for consideration by the subsidiary body for implementation at its fifty -eighth session ( june 2023 ) ; 4. requests the subsidiary body for implementation , at its fifty -eighth session , to initiate the second review of the functions of the standing co mmittee
o mmittee on finance , in accordance with the terms of reference , taking into account the submissions referred to in paragraph 3 above ; 5. also requests the subsidiary body for implementation to complete its work on the second review of the functions of the stan ding committee on finance at its fi
erence of the p arties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at its fifth session ( november –december 2023 ) ; 6. further requests the secretariat to prepare a technical paper on the second review of the functions of the standing committee on finance , in accordance with the 
on committee , the climate technology centre and network , the least developed countries expert group and the technology executive committee ; 4. requests the board to ensure that the conditions it applies to projects are not inconsistent with approved policies and procedures ; 1 fccc/cp/2022/4 and 
s to the convention and may receive financial inputs from a variety of other sources , public and private , i ncluding alternative sources ; 2 7. requests the board to continue to enhance coherence and complementarity of the green climate fund with other relevant bilateral , regional and global fund
pment of projects and programmes based on national adaptation plans in line with the board ’ s approved guidance on support for adaptation ; 3 9. requests the board to continue to enhance support for the formulation and implementation of national adaptation plans to enable developing countries to ta
ourages the board to continue work on the request for proposals to establish technology incubators and accelerators in developing countries ; 12. requests the board to continue to accredit direct access entities , especially national and regional entities and instituti ons , in line with the updated
me and to provide ambitious levels of adaptation support , emphasizing the need for adaptation as stated in decision 7/cp.20 , paragraph 12 ; 14. requests the board to continue to address the needs of developing countries that are particularly vulne rable to the adverse effects of climate change ; 1
.21 , para . 46 . 4 as referred to in decision 1/cp.16 , para . 70 , and decision 1/cp.13 , para . 1 ( b ) ( iii ) . fccc/cp/2022/10/add.2 26 18. requests the board to consider enhancing ambition in the next version of its gender policy and invites the board to take into account the implementation o
 submission portal5 no later than 10 weeks prior to the twenty -eighth session of the conference of the parties ( november –december 2023 ) ; 22. requests the standing committee on finance to take into consideration the submissions referred to in paragraph 21 above in preparing its draft guidance fo
onference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at its fifth session ( november –december 2023 ) ; 23. also requests the board to include in its annual report to the conference of the parties information on the steps it has taken to implement the guidance provid
ial climate change fund during the eighth replenishment of the global environment facility so as to effectively assist developing countries ; 10. requests the global environment facility to continue to foster greater diversity of its implementing agencies , building on the comparative advantages of 
on costs for all implemen ting agencies , reducing administrative costs and facilitating increased access by multilateral development banks ; 13. requests the global environment facility to report on its efforts to deliver the increased per -project funding ceiling under its small grant s programme 
 environment facility ’ s commitment to maintain an ambitious level of direct and indirect climate co -benefits in its eighth replenishment ; 15. requests the global environment fa cility to further explore ways to provide support to developing country parties for assessing their needs and prioritie
the long -term vision on complementarity , coherence and collaboration between the green climate fund and the global environment facility ; 7 18. requests the global environment facility , as appropriate , to ensure that its policies and procedures related to the consideration and review of funding 
 submission portal8 no later than 10 weeks prior to the twenty -eighth session of the conference of the parties ( november –december 2023 ) ; 20. requests the standing committee on finance to take in to consideration the submissions referred to in paragraph 19 above when preparing its draft guidance
nference of the parties servi ng as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at its fifth session ( november –december 2023 ) ; 21. also requests the global environment facility to include in its annual report to the conference of the parties information on the steps it has taken to i mplem
orts of the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network in mainstreaming gender considerations in their work and requests the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network to swiftly finalize the two global rosters of female experts in 
upport the development of funding proposals that incorporate their use for submission to the operating entities of the finan cial mechanism ; 11. requests the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network to continue to enhance their efforts to monitor and evaluate the
nology executive committee and the climate technology centre and network responded to mandates of parties in the implementation of their work and requests the two bodies to include such information in their joint annual reports ; 14. encourages the secretariats supporting the technology executive co
ntation of mitigation and adaptation actions ; 21. welcomes the launch of the pa rtnership and liaison office in songdo , republic of korea , and requests the climate technology centre and network to include information on its experience in and lessons learned from the operation of its partnership a
orts of the clima te technology centre and network to mobilize a diverse range of resources , including pro bono and in -kind contributions , and requests the climate technology centre and network to finalize and implement a resource mobilization and partnership strategy and t o include information 
structures and to consider the suggestions in the informal repo rt referred to in paragraph 5 above with a view to strengthening their role ; 16. requests the secretariat to support the attendance of national gender and climate change focal points at relevant mandated unfccc meetings , upon request 
mplications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in paragraph 16 above and paragraphs 1 , 6 and 7 of the annex ; 22. requests that the actio ns of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 9 decis ion 3
riod in 2023 from monday , 6 november , to friday , 17 november , to the following dates : thursday , 30 november , to tuesday , 12 december ; 3. requests the executive secretary to continue consultations with the govern ment of the united arab emirates and to conclude a host country agreement for c
elays in selecting a host country and the need for the secretariat to conduc t fact -finding missions to the host country in a timely manner ; 6. requests the subsidiary body for implementation , at its fifty -eighth session , to consider the issue of the host of the sessions referred to in paragrap
delays in selecting a host country and the need for the secretariat to conduct fact -finding missions to the host country in a timely manner ; 9. requests the subsidiary body for implementation , at its fifty -eighth session , to consider the issue of the host of the sessions referred to in paragrap
voluntary contribution to the core budget of eur 766,938 and its special contribution of eur 1,789,522 as host government of the secretariat ; 8. requests the executive secretary to take further measures to reduce parties ’ outstanding contributions ; ii . other budgetary matters 9. takes note of th
e mechanisms currently in place f or funding employee benefits , as summarized in section iii of the note referred to in paragraph 14 above ; 16. requests the secretariat to continue implementing the mechanisms referred to in paragraph 15 above ; 17. also requests the secretariat to inform the subsi
rred to in paragraph 14 above ; 16. requests the secretariat to continue implementing the mechanisms referred to in paragraph 15 above ; 17. also requests the secretariat to inform the subsid iary body for implementation of any relevant developments with regard to the funding of employee benefits , 
oluntary contribution to the core budget of eur 766,938 and its special contribution of eur 1,789,522 as host government of the secretariat ; 14. requests the executive secretary to take further measures to reduce parties ’ outstanding contributions . 9th plenary meeting 17 november 2 022 fccc/cp/20
ference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at the third part of its first session ( december 2018 ) ; 3. requests the secretariat to devel op an online platform that will provide an overview , based on the list contained in annex i , with weblinks to complete
ion into the official united nations languages , while also allowing for the effective participation of delegates from developing coun tries ; 9. requests the secretariat to make provisional and , if required , final arrangements for the additional negotiating session referred to in paragraph 5 abov
ee on finance will prepare biennial assessments and overviews of climate finance flows in 2018 and 2020 in accordance with decision 2/cp.17 , 12. requests the president of the confere nce of the parties and the unfccc executive secretary to send joint letters to parties to the kyoto protocol that ar
he doha amendment to the kyoto protocol urging them to deposit their instruments of acceptance with the depositary as soon as possible ; 13. also requests the secretariat to consult the united nations secretary -general on ways to promote the ratification of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol 
 portal ,2 by 1 may 2018 , additional information on progress in implementing decision 1/cp.21 , section iv : enhanced action prior to 2020 ; 15. requests the secretariat to prepare a synthesis report o n the submissions referred to in paragraph 14 above as inp ut to the stocktake referred to in par
 ; 20. takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activit ies to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in this decision and requests that the actions called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 3 pursuant to decision 1/cp.21 , 
entative of local communities and indigenous peoples organizations , who will each make an equal contribution to the design of the workshop ; 10. requests the subsidiary bo dy for scientific and technological advice to consider at its forty -eighth session ( april –may 2018 ) the further operational
. takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in paragraph 9 above ; 12. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 12th plenary m
the goal of gender balance ; 2 4. notes the lack of progress made in delegation s and const ituted bodies towards the goal of gender balance ; 5. requests the secretariat to prepare , for consideration by the subsidiary body for implementation at its session to be held in november 2019 , a synthesis
e of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 1 , 5 and 6 above ; 10. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject t o the availability of financial resources . 3 decision 21
e reports to the subsidiary body for scientific an d technological advice on the five in -session workshops on issues related to agriculture,1 1. requests the subsidiary body fo r scientific and technological advice and the subsidiary body for implementation to jointly address issues related to agri
 ( e ) improved livestock management systems ; ( f ) socioeconomic and food security dimensions of climate change in the agricultural sector ; 3. requests that any actions of the secretariat resulting from the provisions in paragraph 1 above be undertaken subject to the availability of financial res
ade towards implementing its five -year rolling workplan in 2020 and at regular intervals at subsequent meetings of the e xecutive committee ; 6. requests the executive committee to include in its annual reports , as appropriate , more detailed information on the work undertaken by its expert groups
mendations for integrated approaches to averting , minimizing and addressing displacement related to the adverse impacts of climate change ; 3 9. requests the secretariat , under the guidance of the executive co mmittee and the chair of the subsidiary body for implementation , to organize , in conju
their vi ews in the context of activity 1 ( a ) of strategic workstream ( e ) of the five -year rolling workplan of the executive committee ; 11. requests the secretariat to prepare a report on the expert dialogue referred to in paragraph 9 above for consideration by the exec utive committee at its 
duration of the mandates of those expert groups , subcommittees , panels , thematic advisory groups and task -focused ad hoc working groups ; 19. requests the executive committee , in accordance with its mandate7 and the report referred to in paragraph 1 above : ( a ) to consider , when updating its
es note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 4 –20 above ; 24. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 12th plenary m
6. welcomes the progress of parties in their efforts to strengthen their domestic enabling environments in order to attract climate finance , and requests parties to continue to enhance their enabling environments and policy frameworks to facilitate the mobilization and effective deployment of clima
 and small island developing states may su bmit biennial update reports at their discretion ; 1 fccc/cp/2017/inf .1. fccc/cp/2017/11/add.1 24 10. requests the secretariat , in collaboration with the operating entities of the financial mechanism , u nited nations agencies and bilateral , regional and
ther build on the key findings and messages from the 2017 in -session workshop on long -term climate finance and the summary report thereon ; 15. requests the secretariat to organize the in -session works hop referred to in paragraph 13 above and to prepare a summary report on the workshop for consi
mittee on finance extended the two -year workplan on the measurement , reporting and verification of support beyond the biennial assessment , and requests the standing committee on finance to enhance its work on the measurement , reporting and verification of support beyond the biennial assessment ,
cation of ongoing work under the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice and the ad hoc working group on the paris agreement ; 8. requests the standing committee on finance , in fulfilling its function with regard to the measurement , reporting and verification of support , and in th
comes the appointment of focal points of the standing committee on finance to liaise with the other constituted bodies under the convention , and requests the 1 fccc/cp/2017/9 . 2 fccc/cp/2017 /9 , annex viii . 3 fccc/cp/2017/9 , annex v. 4 fccc/cp/2017/9 , annex vi . fccc/cp/2017/11/add.1 26 standi
 improving coherence and coordination in the delivery of climate change financing , taking into account all relevant decisions on forests ; 5 13. requests the standing committee on finance to report to the conference of the parties at its twenty -fourth session ( december 2018 ) on the progress made
e conference of the parties at its twenty -fourth session ( december 2018 ) on the progress made in the implementation of its workplan ; 14. also requests the standing committee on finance to consider the guidance provided to it in other relevant decisions of the c onference of the parties . 14th pl
sting , informing an d advancing the work of the conference of the parties in exercising its function in relation to the financial mechanism ; 6. requests the standing committee on finance to continue to provide and enhance the dissemination and utilization of specific and target ed outputs and reco
lated work across the different subsidiary and constituted bodies , while resp ecting the mandates and competencies of the different bodies ; 11. requests the standing committee on finance to further refine its approach to maintaining linkages with the subsidiary and constituted bodies according to 
131359396103493098 - scf % 20submission % 20sbi % 2046.pdf . 2 fccc/cp/ 2017/9 , annex vii . 3 fccc/tp/2017/4 . fccc/cp/2017/11/add.1 28 12. also requests the standing committee on finance to ensure the value added of its forum when deciding on the topic of each forum , to provide clear recommendati
ee on finance , including through the webcasting of its meetings and the timely publication of its reports to the conference of the parties ; 14. requests the standing committee on finance to further strengthen its stakeholder engagement ; 15. decides to continue its deliberations on ways to enhance
all constituencies in the meetings of the standing committee on finance and the continuity of the work of the standing committee on finance ; 16. requests the standing committee on finance to provide options for the enhancement of the participation of members and to report back to the conference of 
perations of the green climate fund in 2017 , including : ( a ) the expansion of its portfolio to include : ( 1 ) usd 41.8 million to support 130 requests in 92 countries through the readiness and preparatory support programme , two thirds of which are in t he least developed countries , small islan
lenges in accessing financial resources for climate act ion in developing country parties , especially in relation to funding for adaptation ; 7. requests the board to ensure that all developing country parties have access to all the financial instruments available through the green climate fund , i
 fund board decision b.18/06 ; 10. encourages the board to continue improving the process to review and approve readiness and preparatory support requests , including requests for support to prepare national adaptation plans and voluntary adaptation planning processes , including timely disbursement
b.18/06 ; 10. encourages the board to continue improving the process to review and approve readiness and preparatory support requests , including requests for support to prepare national adaptation plans and voluntary adaptation planning processes , including timely disbursement for approved program
pages/home.aspx . fccc/cp/2017/11/add.1 31 10 weeks prior t o the twenty -fourth session of the conference of the parties ( december 2018 ) ; 20. requests the standing committee on finance to take into consideration the submissions referred to in paragraph 19 above when providing its draft guidance 
19 above when providing its draft guidance for the board of the gr een climate fund for consideration by the conference of the parties ; 21. also requests the green climate fund to include in its annual report to the conference of the parties information on the steps that it has taken to implement t
bal environment facility the conference of the parties , recalling decision 11/cp.22 , noting the importance of providing timely responses to the requests of developing country parties , 1. notes the report of the global environment facility to the conference of the parties1 and the responses of the
ment as well as the request of the conference of the parties to the global environment facility contained in decision 11/cp.22 , paragraph 3 ; 5. requests the global environment facility to enhance the consultation process with develop ing country parties and other stakeholders in the context of the
n the context of the global environment facility replenishment process ; 6. noting the importance of the existing allocation for climate change , requests the global environment facility to further consider the needs and priorities of developing countries in the allocation for the climate change foc
der the needs and priorities of developing countries in the allocation for the climate change focal area in its seventh replenishment period ; 7. requests the global environment facility to continue implementing in its seventh replenishment period its established policies for grants and concessional
 8. welcomes the operationalization of the capacity -building initiative for transparency and projects approved during the reporting period , and requests the global environment facility to provide adequate support to assist developing country partie s , in line with decision 1/cp.21 , paragraph 86 
the joint summary referred to in footnote 2 above . 4 titled “ future directions on accreditation – a follow -up ” . fccc/cp/2017/11/add.1 33 10. requests the global environment facility , as appropriate , to ensure that its policies and procedures related to the consideration and review of funding 
018 ) , their views and recommendations on the elements to be taken into account in developing guidance for the global environment facility ; 15. requests the standing committee on finance to take into consideration the submissions referred to in paragraph 14 above when providing its draft guidance 
raph 14 above when providing its draft guidance for the global environment facility for consideration by the conference of the parties ; 16. also requests the global environment facility to include in its annual report to the conference of the parties information on the steps that it has taken to im
to enhance complementarity and coherence between them and between the operating entities and other sources of investment and financial flows ; 3. requests the operating entities of the financial mechanism to continue to enhance complementarity and coherence ; 4. decides to initiate the seventh revie
th the criteria in the updated g uidelines contained in the annex to decision 12/cp.22 , or as th ose guidelines may be subsequently amended ; 5. requests the standing committee on finance to provide expert input to the seventh review of the financial mechanism in 2021 with a view to the review bein
; 2 4. further w elcomes the progress made on this matter as reflected in the informal note by the co -chairs of the contact group thereon ; 3 5. requests the subsidiary body for implementation to consider , beginning at its forty - eighth session ( april –may 2018 ) and at any subsequent sessions o
mmittee and the climate technology centre and network , topics for the technical examination process on mitigation for the period until 2020 ; 4. requests the technology executive committee and the climate technology cent re and network to include in their joint annual report to the conference of th
, through the secretariat , to lead the organization of relevant technical expert meetings ; 8. further invites the lead expert organizations and requests the secretariat , as appropriate , in organizing the technical expert meetings : 1 decision 1/cp.21 , paragraphs 113 and 131 . 2 decision 1/cp.21
iary body for implementation at its forty -eighth session ( april –may 2018 ) , taki ng into account parties ’ deliberations at this session ; 8. requests the subsidiary body for implementation , at its forty -eighth session , to consider the findings and recommendations of the independent review , 
.18 , annex i. fccc/cp/2017/11/add.2 5 further financial support should be provided , recalli ng decis ion 2/cp.17 , paragraphs 139 and 141 ; 10. requests the secretariat , pursuant to decision 2/cp.17 , annex vii , paragraph 20 , and subject to the availability of financial resources , to commissio
ommittee and the climate technology centre and network , as contained in annex i to the joint annual report referred to in paragraph 1 above ; 5. requests the technology executive committee and the climate technology centre and net work to carry out monitoring and evaluation of the impacts of the im
y the climate technology centre and network in 2017 in implementing its programme of work , including by enhancing its response to the increa sed requests for technical assistance ; broadening the network membership ; and increasing the use of expertise sourced from the network to address the reques
quests for technical assistance ; broadening the network membership ; and increasing the use of expertise sourced from the network to address the requests for technical assistance ; 13. encourages the climate technology centre and network to continue streng thening partnership and collaboration with
environment facility and multilateral development banks regarding collaborative activities , including the implementation of technical assistance requests with scalable investment potential ; 17. invites the climate technology centre and network to continue providing support for enhancing the capaci
 capacity -building activities for the implementation of nationally determined contributions in the context of the paris agreement in 2018 ; 4 9. requests the subsidiary body for implementation to thematically align the next durban forum with the 2017 –2018 focus area or theme of the paris committee
 reports and national communications of parties included in annex i to the convention and the importance of enhancing the training programme , 1. requests the secretariat to enhance the materials of the training programme , on the basis of decisions 24/cp.19 and 9/cp.21 and taking into account the e
 the reviews of the seventh national communications and third biennial reports of parties included in annex i to the convention in 2018 ; 2. also requests the secretariat to enhance the user interface of the training courses with a view to making them more user -friendly ; 3. further requests the se
. also requests the secretariat to enhance the user interface of the training courses with a view to making them more user -friendly ; 3. further requests the secretariat to implement the training programme and examinations for review experts for t he technical review of biennial reports and nationa
e technical review of biennial reports and national communications of parties included in annex i to the convention as outlined in the annex ; 4. requests the secretariat to include , in its annual report to the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice on the composition of expert rev
 united nations general assembly decides not to provide resources for these activities in the united nati ons regular budget ( see table 3 ) ; 9. requests the executive secretary to report to the subsidiary body for implementation on the implementation of matters referred to in paragraphs 7 and 8 ab
s to the trust fund for supplementary activities with a view to enabling the implementation of mandated activities envisaged under the fund ; 17. requests the secretariat to c ontinue to seek efficiencies , streamline administrative services , absorb work in order to save costs in the biennium 2018 
osts in the biennium 2018 –2019 and to report thereon at the session of the subsidiary body for implementation to be held in june 2019 ; 18. also requests the secreta riat to prepare and make available an annual report as outlined in document fccc/sbi/2016/inf.14 , paragraph 37 , to be considered at
ding info rmation on the secretariat ’ s activities in the preceding year , programme delivery highlights and financial performance ; 19. further requests the executive secretary to report to the conference of the parties at its twenty -fourth session ( december 2018 ) on income and budget performan
to account guidance from parties , and to propose any adjustments that might be needed to the program me budget for the biennium 2018 –2019 ; 20. requests , recalling paragraph 22 of decision 22/cp.21 , in which the executive secretary was requested to include a zero nominal growth scenario in prepa
and caribbean states ; 6. invites parties to undertake further consultations on the hosting of the sessions referred to in paragraph 5 above ; 7. requests the subsidiary body for implementation , at its forty -eighth session ( april – may 2018 ) , to consider the issue of the host of the sessions re
an and other states ; 9. invites parties to undertake further consultations on the hosting of the sessions referred to in paragraph 8 above ; 10. requests the subsidiary body for implementation , at its forty -eighth session , to consider the issue of the host of the sessions referred to in paragrap
f the report on the dialogue on the relationship between land and climate change adaptation related matters referred to in paragraph 58 above and requests the chair of the subsidiary body for scientific and technological advice to prepare an informal summary report thereon and make it available to t
0 70. takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in this decision ; 71. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 12th plenary m
ics disaggregated by gender and region on its awareness -raising , outreach and information- sharing efforts such as events and publications ; 5. requests the adaptation committee to resume holding its regular meetings and events in person while offering the option of virtual attendance to ensur e i
-leste and tonga of their national adaptation plans in nap central,1 bringing the total number of submitted nat ional adaptation plans to 30 ; 2. requests the subsidiary body for implementation , at its sixtieth session ( june 2024 ) , to initiate the assessment of progress in the process to formula
t all the guiding principles of the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans contained in decision 5/cp.17 , paragraph 3 ; 5. requests the constituted bodies and programmes under the convention to continue to provide information on their activities relevant to the process to form
es to increase climate finance , acknowledges that some developed country parties have already doubled the ir provision of adaptation finance and requests other developed country parties to significantly increase their provision of adaptation finance , including by , as appropriate , considering dou
tion ; 10. welcomes the progress of parties ’ efforts to strengthen their domestic enabling environments in order to attract climate financ e and requests parties to continue to enhance their enabling environments and policy frameworks to facilitate the mobilization and effective deployment of clima
13 with a view to providing input for consideration by the conference of the parties at its twenty - seventh session ( november 2022 ) ; 13. also requests the standing committee on finance to undertake further work on mapping the available information relevant to article 2 , paragraph 1 ( c ) , of t
ce of the parties at its twenty -sixth session ; 18. decides that continued discussions on long- term climate finance will conclude in 2027 ; 19. requests the standing committee on finance to prepare a report in 2022 on progress towards achieving the goal of mobilizing jointly usd 100 billion per ye
rview of climate finance flows ; 20. decides to convene biennial high- level ministerial dialogues on climate finance in 2022 , 2024 and 2026 and requests the presidency of the conference of th e parties to summarize the deliberations at the dialogue s for consideration by the conference of the part
te of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 20 and 2 2 above ; 24. requests that the actions of the s ecretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 12th plenary 
tes that the operational definitions in use generally reflect a common understanding of what is considered mitigation and adaptation finance ; 7. requests the standing committee on finance to continue its work on definitions of climate finance , taking into account the submissions received fr om par
21 forum of the standing committee on finance on finance for nature -based solutions carried out in a hybrid format on 15 and 16 october 2021 and requests the standing committee on finance to organiz e the second part of the forum in 2022 , subject to health and safety considerations arising from th
hat it has not agreed on recommendations from the fourth ( 2020 ) biennial assessment and overview of climate finance flo ws , and in this regard requests the committee to improve its working modalities ; 25. notes with appreciation the efforts of the standing committee on finance in enhancing engag
 the standing com mittee on finance to continue to enhance its efforts towards ensuring gender -responsiveness in implementing its workplan ; 27. requests the standing committee on finance to report to the conference of the parties at its twenty -seventh session on its progress in implementing its 2
on finance to report to the conference of the parties at its twenty -seventh session on its progress in implementing its 2022 workplan ; 28. also requests the standing committee on finance to consider the guidance provided to it in other relevant decisions of the conference of the parties . 7 fccc/c
when considering mitigation needs by sector and subsector , the nine types of national report show that most needs in the energy sector relate to requests for support for the energy efficiency and renewable energy subsectors , albeit with some variation betw een them . in ndcs , needs for renewable 
ministrative remedies and exclusions policy ; and guidelines to facilitate consideration by the board of independent redress mechanism reports on requests for reconsideration , grievances and complaints ; ( e ) the approval of it s evaluation policy ; ( f ) the continued collaboration between the gr
s the long- term vision on complementarity , coherence and collaboration between the green climate fund and the global environment facility 3 and requests the board to enhance coherence and complementarity with other clim ate finance delivery channels with a view to enhancing the impact and effectiv
 via the submission portal 5 no later than 10 weeks prior to the twenty -seventh session of the conference of the parties ( november 2022 ) ; 17. requests the standing committee on finance to take into consideration the submissions referred to in paragraph 16 above when preparing its draft guidance 
and the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at its fourth session ( november 2022 ) ; 18. also requests the board of the green climate fund to include in its annual report to the conference of the parties information on the steps it has taken to imp
nal entities from developing country parties in the partnership , including by allowing them to serve as executing agencies , as appropriate ; 7. requests the global environment facility t o consider ways to further enhance the role of national agencies and civil society organizations as executing a
ncial contr ibutions to the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund to support adaptation and technology transfer ; 9. requests the global environment facility , as an operating entity of the financial mechanism of the convention entrusted with t he operation of the specia
shment , to continue to take into account needs and priorities of developing countries , as well as their diff erent national circumstances ; 12. requests the global environment facility to consider updating its policy on gender equality to include protection against discrimination ; 13. recognizes 
s the long- term vis ion on complementarity , coherence and collaboration between the green climate fund and the global environment facility6 and requests the global environment facility council to enhance coherence and complementarity with other climate finance delivery chann els with a view to enh
ce and complementarity with other climate finance delivery chann els with a view to enhancing the impact and effectiveness of its work ; 18. also requests the global environment facility , as part of the eighth replenishment process , to take note of the needs and priorities for climate finance , in
y via the submission portal8 no later than 10 weeks prior to the twenty -seventh session of the conference of the parties ( november 2022 ) ; 20. requests the standing committee on finance to take into consideration the submissions referred to in paragraph 19 above when preparing its draft guidance 
and the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at its fourth session ( november 2022 ) ; 21. also requests the global environment facility to include in its annual report to the conference of the parties information on the steps it has taken to impleme
e and network to adapt to operational challenges resulting from the continuing pandemic by focusing on the implementation of technical assistance requests and making use of online stakeholder engagement and capacity -building activities ; 17. apprecia tes the multi- country , regional and programmat
rk to date ; 30. recognizes the challenge of securing sustainable financial resources for the climate technology centre and n etwork for 2022 and requests the climate technology centre and network to strengthen its resource mobilization efforts to ensure sustainable funding for effectively implement
ional arrangements of the climate technology centre at the regional level , undertaken with the aim of enhancing support for technical assistance requests ; 8. also welcomes the management response of the united nations environment programme to the second independent review , as contained in the rep
 , para . 7 . 4 fccc/cp/2021/3 , paras . 14 –60 . 5 fccc/cp/2021/3 , paras . 61–62 . 6 fccc/cp/2021/3 , annex viii . fccc/cp/2021/12/add.1 62 12. requests the climate technology centre and network to include in its joint annual report with the technology executive committee for 2022 and in the subse
 entities to developing country parties for requesting technical assistance from the climate technology centre and network , which led to all the requests received being deemed eligible , and encourages them to continue to provide such support ; 18. also encourages the climate technology centre and 
s the functions of the climate technology centre and network at its thirty- first session ( 2026 ) and decides whether to extend its term ; 8 23. requests the subsidiary body for implementation to start considering , at its sixty- second session ( 2025 ) , matters relating to the alignment between p
 23. fccc/cp/2021/12/add.1 63 this matter for consideration and adoption by the conference of the parties at its thirty -first session ; 24. also requests the secretariat , pursuant to decision 2/cp.17 , annex vii , paragraph 20 , and subject to the availability of financial resources , to commissio
eness of the climate technology centre and network for consideration by the conference of the parties at its thirty -first sessi on ; 25. further requests the secretariat to organize a dialogue , in conjunction with the thirty- first session of the conference of the parties , to consider the finding
 decides to conclude the fifth review of the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in countries with economies in transition and requests the subsidiary body for implementation , at its sixty -fourth session ( 2026 ) , to initiate the sixth review thereof with a view to the conferen
land developing states , noting that this does not set a precedent for the consideration of the composition of other bodies under the unfccc ; 4. requests the subsidiary body for implementation , at its sixty -second session ( 2025 ) , to initiate consideration of the extension of the term of the co
ing a draft decision on these matters for consideration and adoption by the conference of the parties at its thirtieth session ( 2025 ) ; 5. also requests the secretariat to facilitate the work of the consultative group of experts pursuant to de cision 11/cp.24 and this decision ; 6. takes note of t
6. takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in paragraph 5 above ; 7. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undert aken subject to the availability of financial resources . 1 fccc/sbi/20
 paragraphs 3 –4 above ; 6. welcomes the efforts of the group in enhancing the accessibility and transparency of its meetings and information and requests it to continue its efforts , building on the experience of other constituted bodies , while taking into account its nature as a technical e xpert
7. invites parties and relevant organizations to continue to provide resources for supporting implementation of the group ’ s work programme ; 8. requests the group to continue to provide tech nical guidance and support to the least developed countries for advancing the formulation and implementatio
tivities , to share information on relevant sources of finance for adaptation , including sources other than the unfccc financial mechanism ; 11. requests the gr oup to continue to support the least developed countries in understanding the modalities for and ways of accessing relevant sources of fin
ing relevant sources of financing , capacity -building and technology transfer for adaptation in accordance with the group ’ s mandate ; 12. also requests the group , in collaboration with relevant constituted bodies , to assist the least developed countries in addressing adaptation -related provisi
9 , 4/cp.11 , 8/cp.13 , 6/cp.16 , 5/cp.17 , 12/cp.18 , 3/cp.20 , 19/cp.21 , 8/cp.24 , 16/cp.24 and 7/cp.25 . fccc/cp/2021/12/add.2 10 13. further requests the group to continue to collaborate with the standing committee on finance on matters relating to access to the green climate fund and other fun
under the financial mechanism by the least developed countries for funding the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans ; 14. requests the group to continue to collaborate with the adaptation committee and other constituted bodies working on adaptation , as well as on work under 
in supporting the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans through the national adaptation plan technical working group ; 17. requests the group to mobilize more partners to address specific priority needs of the least developed countries , as appropriate ; 18. decides to adjust 
least developed countries ; ( d ) four members from the least developed country parties ; ( e ) four members from developed country parties ; 19. requests the group to develop , taking into account its current pract ices and its terms of reference , its draft rules of procedure , for consideration a
nd the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris ag reement at its fourth session ( november 2022 ) ; 20. also requests the group to include in its draft rules of procedure provisions on , inter alia , the nomination , term limits and rotation of its members ; 21. 
ves of the convention a nd the paris agreement , in order to enhance national climate policy , including nationally determined contributions ; 8. requests , in the context of implementation of the second three -year workplan , the facilitative working group to take into account additiona l inputs fr
 indigenous peoples and representatives of local communities in diverse and innovative ways in addressing and responding to climate chan ge ; 11. requests the facilitative working group to report on its outcomes , including a draft third three -year workplan of the local communities and indigenous p
ecision 2/cp.24 , paragraph 4 , with a view to the conference of the parties adopting a decision on the review at its twenty -ninth session ; 13. requests the facilitative working group to invite parties , indigenous peoples and local communities and other stakeholders to make submissions by the 10t
r implementing the functions of the local communities and indigenous peoples platform , including as part of the initial two -year workplan ; 15. requests the secretariat to continue to support and facilitate the work of the facilitative working group ; 16. takes note of the estimated budgetary impl
and organizations to provide financial support for implementation of the functions of the local communities and indigenous peoples platform ; 18. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . 10th plenary m
recommendations for consideration and adoption by the governing body at its next session or the governing bodies at their next session s ; “ 11 . requests the secretariat to continue providing support for developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change 
. takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secre tariat referred to in this decision ; “ 15 . requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . ” ; 2. notes t
tion for promoting inclusive opportunities for all in a low -emission economy , and to s ubmit the paper to the secretariat by 31 march 2022 ; 5. requests the secretariat to prepare a synthesis report on the submissions referred to in paragraph 3 above , information and recommendations arising from 
 two case studies , including data disaggregated by sex that provide further inform ation on the participation of women in party delegations ; 7. requests the secretariat to expl ore ways of automating the analysis of data disaggregated by sex on speaking times at unfccc meetings in order to continu
and promote coordination an d coherence in the context of this work , taking into consideration the recommendations contained in the report ; 11. requests the secretariat to prepare an informal summary report prior to the fifty -sixth session of the subsidiary body for implementation reflec ting cle
 of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 5 , 7 and 11 above ; 15. requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resour ces . 10th plenary 
nference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement from monday , 7 november , to friday , 18 november 2022 ; 2. requests the executive secretary to continue consultations with the government of egypt and to conclude a host country agreement for convening the session
le , preferably before the fifty -sixth session s of the subsidiary bodies ( june 2022 ) , so as to allow for its prompt implementation ; 3. also requests the executive secretary to provide the host country with technical support and guidance on unfccc policies and requirements , taking into account
nference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement from monday , 6 november , to friday , 17 november 2023 ; 5. requests the executive secretary to initiate consultations with the government of the united arab em irates and to conclude a host country agreement for c
le , preferably before the fifty -eighth sessions of the subsidiary bodies ( june 2023 ) , so as to allow for its prompt implementation ; 6. also requests the executive secretar y to provide the host country with technical support and guidance on unfccc policies and requirements , taking into accoun
elays in selecting a host country and the need for the secreta riat to conduct fact -finding missions to the host country in a timely manner ; 9. requests the subsidiary body for implementation , at its fifty -sixth session , to consider the issue of the host of the sessions referred to in paragraph
parties,3 1. approves the programme budget for the biennium 2022 –2023 , amounting to eur 62,347,351 , for the purposes specified in table 1 ; 2. requests the secretariat , in implementing its work programme for the biennium 2022 – 2023 on the basis of the programme budget approved in paragraph 1 ab
unit ed nations general assembly decides not to provide resources for these activities in the united nations regular budget ( see table 3 ) ; 11. requests the executive secretary to report to the subsidiary body for implementation on the implementation of matters refe rred to in paragraphs 9 –10 abo
ributions to the trust fund for supplementary activities with a view to enabling the implementation of activities envisa ged under the fund ; 20. requests the executive secretary to propose to the conference of the parties at its twenty -seventh session ( november 2022 ) any adjustments that might b
m 2022 –2023 and to support any such p roposal with a report on income and budget performance for the period 1 january to 30 june 2022 ; 21. also requests the executive secretary to apply the budget methodology used by the secretariat to develop the programme budget for the biennium 2022 –2023 to fu
p the programme budget for the biennium 2022 –2023 to future bienniums and to continue engaging parties early in the budget process ; 22. further requests the executive sec retary to further enhance the transparency of future proposed budget documentation by including in the work programme a breakdo
e the transparency of future proposed budget documentation by including in the work programme a breakdown of staff per objective and output ; 23. requests the executive secretary to publish future proposals on the programme budget , inclu ding the work programme , at least 60 days before the start o
ays before the start of the first session of the year of the subsidiary body for implementation at which the budget is to be discussed ; 24. also requests the secretariat to enhance the provision of information in future b udget performance reports regarding : ( a ) efficiency gains and any savings 
voluntary contribution to the core budget of eur 766,938 and its special contribution of eur 1,789,522 as host government of the secretariat ; 9. requests the exec utive secretary to take further measures to reduce parties ’ outstanding contributions ; 10. also r equests the executive secretary to p
