so to provide support for capacity - building as referred to in paragraph 1 above ; 4. recalls that the least de veloped countries and small island developing states may prepare and communicate strategies , plans and actions for low greenhouse gas emission development reflecting their special circum
two members from each of the five united nations regional groups , one member from the least developed countries , one member from the small island developing states and two members f rom relevant intergovernmental organizations ; ( c ) members shall serve in their expert capacity and should have re
nerable to the adverse effects of climate change and have significant capacity constraints , such as the least developed countries and small island developing states , considering the need for public and grant -based resour ces for adaptation ; ( k ) information on action and plans to mobilize addit
e transparency arrangements under the convention , recognizing the special circumstances of the least developed countries ( ldcs ) and small island developing states ( sids ) , and implementing the transparency framework in a facilitative , non -intrusive , non -punitive manner , respecting national
g practices ; 12. invites developed country parties to mobilize support for capacity -building so that the least developed countries , small island developing states and other developing countries can effectively participate in the global stocktake and take up relevant global stocktake information ;
table geographical representation , with 2 members each from the five regional groups of the united nations and 1 member each from the small island developing states and the least developed countries , taking into account the goal of gende r balance . 6. the cma shall elect members of the committee 
d and shall pay particular attention to the national capabilities a nd circumstances of the party concerned . special circumstances of small island developing states and the least developed countries , as well as situations of force majeure , should also be recognized , where relevant . 29. the part
nerable to the adverse effects of climate change and have significant capacity constraints , such as the least developed countries and small island developing states , considering the need for public and grant -based resources for adaptation ; 18. takes note of the estimated budgetary implications o
representative of the incoming president of cop 28 ; ( c ) three members from latin america and the caribbean ; ( d ) two members from small island developing states ; ( e ) two members from the least developed countries ; ( f ) one member from a developing country party not included in the categori
cluding in terms of support for participation , to experts from developing countries , particularl y the least developed countries and small island developing states ; 13. also requests the secretariat to include any cases of persistent inconsistencies and/or non-responsiveness by a participating pa
aris agreement at its fifth session on : ( i ) further consideration of the special circumstances of the least developed countries and small island developing states ; fccc/pa/cma/2022/ 10/add . 2 4 ( ii ) the modalities for reviewing information that is confidential ; ( iii ) the reviews specifyi n
ircumstances of participating developing coun try parties and recognize the special circumstances of the least developed countries and small island developing states . 9. the article 6 technical expert review shall be implemented in a facilitative , non - intrusive , non -punitive manner , respectfu
nical expert review referred to in decision 18/cma.1 , annex , chapter vii , whenever possible . 20. the least developed countries and small island developing states may choose to participate in the same centralized review as a group , to the extent possible . vi . procedures 21. for centralized and
and small island developing sta tes , the secretariat shall strive to include technical experts from the least developed countries and small island developing states , while at the same time ensuring that those experts do not participate in reviews for the party that nominated them to the unfccc ros
onal training seminars targeted at technical experts from d eveloping country parties , particularly the least developed countries and small island developing states , may be organized . v. courses of the training programme 8. the following courses relating to the review of information submitted pur
ory body . 58. all the fees referred to in paragraphs 50 –55 above shall be waived for activities in the least developed countries and small island developing states . 59. the supervisory body may adjust and implement the fee structure and levels within the boundary to be set by the cma , on the bas
ers from each of the five united nations regional groups ; ( b ) one member from the least developed countries ; ( c ) one member from small island developing states ( decisi on 3/cma.3 , annex , para . 4 ) . b. nomination and election 4. the cma shall elect members and an alternate for each member 
tates that are least developed countries ( ldcs ) ; ( b ) two members from asia -pacific states that are ldcs ; ( c ) two members from small island developing states that are ldcs ; ( d ) four members from the ldc parties ; ( e ) four members from developed country parties . 4. when nominating membe
members from each of the five recognized united nations regional groups ; ( b ) one member each from the least developed countries and small island developing states ; ( c ) two members of the executive committee , nominated by the executive committee from among its members . 9. the advisory board w
esulting in a total number of accredited implementing entities of 34 national ( of which 10 in the least develop ed countries and 7 in small island developing states ) , 14 multilateral and 9 regional implementing entities , of which 33 were reaccredited ( 17 national implementing entities , 5 regio
ry parties that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change , in particular the least developed countries and small island developing states , in i mplementing their national adaptation plans and adaptation communications , including those submitted as adaptation components 
ctiv e national capabilities and circumstances of parties , recognizing the special circumstances of the least developed countries and small island developing states , at all stages of the process , in accordance with the provisions of the paris agreement , includi ng in determining how to consult w
ed and shall pay particular attention to the national capabilities and circumstances of the party concerned . special circumstances of small island developing states and the least developed countries , as well as situations of force majeure , should also be recognized , where relevant . “ 29 . the p
 e paris agreement at its fourth session ( november 2022 ) , on : ( a ) the special circumstances of the least developed countries and small island developing states ; ( b ) elaboration of further guidance in relation to corresponding adjustments for multi- year and single -year nationally determine
parties ensure that cooperative approaches in which they participate support ambition ; ( c ) assist the least developed countries and small island developing states in meet ing the participation requirements as set out in chapter ii of the annex ( participation ) ; 13. also requests the secretariat
eg y , if it has submitted one , and the long -term goals of the paris agreement . 5. in relation to the least developed countries and small island developing states , pursuant to articl e 4 , paragraph 6 , their special circumstances shall be recognized where this guidance relates to ndcs , and oth
nsure the implementation of the requirements referred to in paragraph 29 of the annex in relation to the least developed countries and small island developing states ; ( g ) consid er ways to encourage participation by small and micro businesses in the mechanism , in particular in the least develope
er ways to encourage participation by small and micro businesses in the mechanism , in particular in the least developed countries and small island developing states ; ( h ) consider opportunities to engage with the local communities and indigenous peoples platfor m and its facilitative working grou
ers from each of the five united nations regional groups ; ( b ) one member from the least developed countries ; ( c ) one member from small island developing states . 1 “ article ” refers to an article of the paris agreement , unless otherwise specified . fccc/pa/cma/2021/ 10/add.1 30 5. the cma sh
 its long- term low ghg emission development strategy , if it has submitted one . 29. in relation to the least developed countries and small island developing states , pursuant to article 4 , paragraph 6 , their special circumstances shall be recognized where these rules , modalities and procedures 
rt for participating in the training programme , to experts from developing countries , particularly the least developed countries and small island developing states ; 35. notes that the information r eported pursuant to decision 18/cma.1 , annex , chapter iv , is not covered by the scope of the tec
onal training seminars targeted at technical experts from dev eloping country parties , particularly the least developed countries and small island developing states , may be organized . e. courses of the training programme 10. the following courses relating to information specified in paragraph 150
 resulting in a total number of accredited implementing entities of 33 national ( of which 9 in the least developed countries and 7 in small island developing states ) , 14 multilateral and 7 regional implementing entities , of which 31 were reaccredited ( 16 national implementi ng entities , 4 regi
from each of the five united nations regional groups ; ( b ) one member from the least developed countries ; ( c ) one member from the small island developing states ; ( d ) two members from relevant intergovernmental organizations.1 5. by the same decision , the cma also decided that members shall 
om each of the five u nited nations regional groups ; ( b ) one member from the least develop ed countries ; ( c ) one member from the small island developing states ; ( d ) two members from relevant intergovernmental organizations.1 5. by the same decision , the cma also decided that members shall 
 resulting in a total number of accredited implementing entities of 33 national ( of which 9 in the least developed countries and 7 in small island developing states ) , 14 multilateral and 7 regional implementing entities , of which 31 were reaccredited ( 16 national implementing entities , 4 regio
from each of the five united nations regional groups ; ( b ) one member from the least developed countries ; ( c ) one member from the small island developing states ; ( d ) two members from relevant intergovernmental organizations.1 5. by the same decision , the cma also decided that members shall 
resulting in a total number of accredited implementing entities of 34 national ( of which 10 in the least developed countries and 7 in small island developing states ) , 14 multilateral and 9 regional im plementing entities , of which 33 were reaccredited ( 17 national implementing entities , 5 regi
roval procedures , and through continued readiness support to developing country parties , including the least developed countries and small island developing states , as appropriate ; fccc/cp/2015/10/add.1 10 technology development and t ransfer 65. takes note of the interim report of the technolog
 guidelines referred to in paragraph 91 below ; 90. also decides that all parties , except for the least developed country parties and small island developing states , shall submit the informatio n referred to in article 13 , paragraphs 7 , 8 , 9 and 10 , of the agreement , as appropriate , no less 
0 , of the agreement , as appropriate , no less frequently than on a biennial basis , and that the least developed country parties and small island developing states may submit this information at their disc retion ; 91. requests the ad hoc working group on the paris agreement to develop recommendat
e geographical representation , with two members each from the five regional groups of the united nations and one member each from the small island developing states and the least developed countries , while taking into account the goal of gender balance ; 103. requests the ad hoc working group on t
enhanced support for developing country parties will allow for higher ambition in their actions . 6. the least developed countries and small island developing states may prepare and communicate strategies , plans and actions for low greenhouse ga s emission s development reflecting their special cir
nerable to the adverse effects of climate change and have significant capacity constraints , such as the least developed countries and small island developing states , considering the need for public and grant -based resources for adaptation . 5. developed co untry parties shall biennially communica
such as the least developed countries , and those that are particularly vulnerable to the ad verse effects of climate change , such as small island developing states , to take effective climate change action , including , inter alia , to implement adaptation and mitigation actions , and should facil
hance the transparency arrangements under the convention , recognizing the special circumstances of the least developed cou ntries and small island developing states , and be implemented in a facilitative , non -intrusive , non -punitive manner , respectful of national sovereignty , and avoid placin
r the implementation of article 6 of the convention for parties , in particu lar african countries , the least developed countries and small island developing states , reaffirming the importance of taking into account gender aspects and the need to promote the effective engagement of children , yout
from each of the five united nations regional groups ; ( b ) one member from the least developed countries ; ( c ) one member from the small island developing states . 3. six representatives from bodies established unde r the convention and from the operating entities of the financial mechanism will
 sector in adaptation finance needs to be further enhanced ; ( d ) access to adaptation finance remains a challenge , particularly for small island developing states and the least developed countries ; ( e ) better information needs to be generated for more efficient planning , including through enh
r cent of the bilateral finance reported to the oecd dac with adaptation as a principal objective . some least developed countries and small island developing states in africa and asia have been among the largest recipients of adaptation finance . 29. about 33 per cent of funding from dedicated clim
roval procedures , and through continued readiness support to developing country parties , including the least developed countries and small island developing states , as ap propriate , and in accordance with board decisions ; 3 in decision 1/cp.16 , paragraph 70 , the conference of the parties enco
decision b.04/08 to develop modalities to support a ctivities enabling private sector involvement in the least developed countries and small island developing states , and to seek opportunities to engage with the private sector , including local actors , on adaptation action at the national , region
n its seventh replenishment programming , to continue to assist developing countries , in particular the least developed countries and small island developing states , in accessing resources in an efficient manner ; 4. also reque sts the global environment facility , as appropriate , to ensure that 
viding enhanced support , including enabling activities , to developing country parties , including the least dev eloped countries and small island developing states , as appropriate , in the context of national climate strategies and plans ; 19. welcomes the successful roll -out of the non -grant i
 resources to parties not included in annex i to the conv ention , in particular african countries , the least developed countries and small island developing states , in order to support activities related to the implementation of article 6 of the convention ; 12. invites relevant international org
nancing but 30 per cent of bilateral finance reported to oecd . 42. with regard to flows to the least developed countries ( ldcs ) and small island developing states ( sids ) in the period 2015 –2016 , funding directed at the ldcs represented 24 per cent of bilateral flows , whereas that directed at
erable to the adverse effects of climate change and have significant capaci ty constraints , such as the least developed countries and small island developing states , considering the need for public and grant -based resources for adaptation ; 15. underlines the essential contribution of nature to a
participation of grass -roots local and indigenous peoples ’ communities from developing countries , the least developed countries and small island developing states , and encourage parti es and relevant organizations to share information on travel funding leading : parties contributing : relevant o
rom each of the five u nited nations regional groups ; ( b ) one member from the least developed countries ; ( c ) one member from the small island developing states ; ( d ) two members from relevant intergovernmental organizations.1 5. by the same decision , the cma also decided that members shall 
exploring ways to include in the fourth phase of the global project on technology needs ass essments the least developed countries and small island developing states that have never undertaken a t echnology needs assessment and have not been included in the fourth phase ; ( b ) relevant recommendati
representative of the incoming president of cop 28 ; ( c ) three members from latin america and the caribbean ; ( d ) two members from small island developing states ; ( e ) two members from the least developed countries ; ( f ) one member from a developing country party not included in the categori
tates that are least developed countries ( ldcs ) ; ( b ) two members from asia -pacific states that are ldcs ; ( c ) two members from small island developing states that are ldcs ; ( d ) four members from the ldc parties ; ( e ) four members from developed country parties . 4. when nominating membe
members from each of the five recognized united nations regional groups ; ( b ) one member each from the least developed countries and small island developing states ; ( c ) two members of the executive committee , nominated by the executive committee from among its members . 9. the advisory board w
rant -based resources in developing countries , in particular for adaptation , and in particular for the least developed countries and small island developing states ; 8. also reiterates that a significant amount of adaptation finance should flow through the operating entities of the financial mecha
ly vulne rable to the adverse effects of climate change ; 15. invites the board to enhance support for the least developed countries , small island developing states and other developing countries in developing project pipelines and proposals , as well as for adaptation a ctions associated with the 
ilize and engage with the private sector during the eighth replenishment period ; 6. welcomes the increased allocation of resources to small island developing states and the least developed countries in the eighth replenishment of the global environmen t facility under the system for transparent all
floors to usd 8 million ; 7. appreciates the efforts of the global environment facility secretariat to scale up adaptation finance for small island developing states through the designation of a dedicated window under the special climate change fund for supporting the adaptation needs of small islan
ping states through the designation of a dedicated window under the special climate change fund for supporting the adaptation needs of small island developing states and encourages continued and increased voluntary contributions of 1 fccc/cp/2022/5 and add.1 . 2 global environment facility council d
nd invites the two bodies to continue to work with developing country parties , in particula r the least developed country parties and small island developing states , to promote the use of incubators and accelerators and to support the development of funding proposals that incorporate their use for
ding those from grass -roots , local and indigenous peoples communities from developing co untries , the least developed countries and small island developing states parties , secretariat and observer organizations 2018 –2019 promotion of funds b.2 include in regular notifications to parties at the 
orting , they should submit their first biennial update reports by december 2014 , noting that the least developed country parties and small island developing states may su bmit biennial update reports at their discretion ; 1 fccc/cp/2017/inf .1. fccc/cp/2017/11/add.1 24 10. requests the secretariat
 in 92 countries through the readiness and preparatory support programme , two thirds of which are in t he least developed countries , small island developing states and african states ; and ( 2 ) usd 2.65 billion to support 54 projects and programmes in 73 countries ; ( b ) improvements to the init
 the global environment facility to further consider ways to improve its access modalities for developing c ountry parties , including small island developing states and the least developed countries ; 1 fccc/cp/2017/7 . 2 see the j oint summary of the chairs of the 52nd global environment facility 
eeds of developing country parties related to implementing the convention and the paris agreement does not have disaggregated data for small island developing states ; 16. emphasiz es that there is a particular challenge in deriving cost estimates for climate adaptation and enhancing resilience need
es not included in annex i to the convention , one additional member from the least developed countries and one additional member from small island developing states , noting that this does not set a precedent for the consideration of the composition of other bodies under the unfccc ; 4. requests th
 the technical analysis , taking into account the experience of non -annex i parties , in particular the least developed countries and small island developing states , in preparing their biennial update reports , and increasing the representation of the least developed count ries and small island de
veloping states , in preparing their biennial update reports , and increasing the representation of the least developed count ries and small island developing states in teams of technical experts . 3. in fulfilling its mandate to support implementation of the enhanced transparency framework under ar
technical advice and support , should , to the extent possible : ( a ) give special consideration to the least developed countries and small island developing states , includin g in the context of the need to improve the ability of experts to participate in technical expert reviews ; ( b ) identify 
e least developed countries ; ( b ) two members from asia -pacific states that are least developed countrie s ; ( c ) two members from small island developing states that are least developed countries ; ( d ) four members from the least developed country parties ; ( e ) four members from developed c
from each of the five united nations regional groups ; ( b ) one member from the least developed countries ; ( c ) one member from the small island developing states ; ( d ) two members from relevant intergovernmental organizations.1 5. by the same decision , the cma also decided that members shall 
