ion of risks , into comprehensive climate risk management approaches , including national and subnational assessment and planning processes ; 24. stresses the importance of enhancing the work on slow onset events and non - economic losses associated with c limate change impacts ; 25. requests the ex
dges that the impacts of climate change exacerbate the global energy and food crises , and vice versa , particularly in developing countries ; 3. stresses that the increasingly complex and challenging global geopolitical situation and its impact on the energy , food and economic situations , as well
e , reliable and resilient , including by accelerating clean and just transitions to renewable energy during this critical decade of action ; 14. stresses the importance of enhancing a clean energy mix , including low -emission and renewable energy , at all levels as part of divers ifying energy mix
serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement and welcomes the robust programme of work for 2023 set out in decision 3/cma.4 ; 38. stresses the urgency of fulfilling the mandate of having a clear framework for the global goal on adaptation to guide the effective imple mentation of art
rica , as well as the government of the walloon region of belgium and the provincial government of quebec , equivalent to usd 211.58 million ; 4. stresses the urgency of enhancing ambition and action in relation to adaptation and adaptation finance in this critical decade to achieve the global goal 
nd the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabi lities in the light of different national circumstances ; 5. stresses the urgency of enhancing ambition and action in relation to mitigation , adaptation and finance in this critical decade to address the gaps in th
ence of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol , recalling decision 1/cmp.8 , 1. welcomes decis ion 1/cp.25 ; 2. stresses the urgency of delivering on the pre -2020 commitments under the kyoto protocol ; 3. congratulates parties that have accepted the doha amendment 
rica , as well as the government of the walloon region of belgium and the provincial government of quebec , equivalent to usd 211.58 million ; 4. stresses the urgency of enhancing ambition and action in relation to adaptation and adaptation finance in this critical decade ; 5. notes the outstanding 
utstanding pledged contributions to the adaptation fund and urges parties that have not fulfilled their pledges to do so as soon as possible ; 8. stresses the importance of financial cont ributions to the adaptation fund , including in the context of urging developed country parties to at least doub
akes note of the progress achieved to date in the implementation of the readiness and preparatory support programme of the green climate fund and stresses the importance of improving the approval process and timely disbursement of readiness resources to facilitate readiness programme implementation 
he implementatio n of article 6 of the convention , also recalling the lima ministerial declaration on education and awareness - raising ,1 which stresses that education , training , public awareness , public participation , public access to information , knowledge and internation al cooperation pla
reme weather events and slow onset events in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change ; 14. stresses the urgency of enhanced ambition in order to ensure the highest possible mitigation and adaptation efforts by all parties ; 4 fccc/cp/2018/8 , an
communities and indigenous peoples platform with a view to enhancing their participation in the facilitative working group and the platform ; 14. stresses the importance of striving for gender balance in the appointment processes of representatives in accordance with decisions 36/cp.7 , 23/cp.18 and
 ’ s decisions on the inputs and processes related to the fund ’ s replenishment,7 which take into account the needs of developing countries ; 6. stresses the urgency to reach pledges for the first formal replenishment process aiming to conclude the process in october 2019 ; 7. takes note of the ind
f mitigation can reduce the need for additional adaptation efforts , and that greater adaptation needs can involve greater adaptation costs ; 10. stresses the urgency of enhanced ambition in order to ensure the highest possible mitigation and adaptation efforts by all parties ; 11. recalls the commi
 climate change exacerbate the global energy and food crises , and vice versa , particularly in developing countries ; fccc/cp/2022/10/add.1 3 3. stresses that the increasingly complex and challenging global geopolitical situation and its impact on the energy , food and economic situations , as well
 , reliable and resilient , including by accelerating clean and just transitions to renewable energy during this cr itical decade of action ; 13. stresses the importance of enhancing a clean energy mix , including low -emission and renewable energy , at all levels as part of diversifying energy mixe
ion processes , having conducted the assessment of the technical exam ination processes and considered ways of improving their effectiveness , 1. stresses the urgency of improving the technical examination processes , as outlined in decision 1/cp.21 , including to better integrate them with the marr
st concern that human activities have caused around 1.1 °c of global warming to date and that impacts are already being felt in every region ; 4. stresses the urgency of enhancing ambition and action in relation to mitigation adaptation and finance in this critical decade to address gaps between cur
