 . guidance to the operating entities of the financial mechanism – the green climate fund and the global environment facility – and on the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund 6. confirms that the standing committee on finance shall serve the paris agreement ; 7. also 
special climate change fund 6. confirms that the standing committee on finance shall serve the paris agreement ; 7. also confirms that the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund shall serve the paris agreement ; 8. requests the standing committee on finance to prepare dr
nding committee on finance to prepare draft guidance for the entities entrusted with the operation of the financial mechanism , and on the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund , for consideration and adoption by the conf erence of the parties serving as the meeting of 
 b ) the kci shall be composed of 14 members , with two members from each of the five united nations regional groups , one member from the least developed countries , one member from the small island developing states and two members f rom relevant intergovernmental organizations ; ( c ) members sh
 decision 1/cp.21 , paragraphs 41 , 42 and 45 , noting with appreciation the technical work undertaken by the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group , in collaboration with the standing c ommittee on finance,1 in relation to decision 1/cp.21 , paragraphs 41 , 42 and 45 
s to enhance the coherence of the work of adaptation - related institutional arrangements 1. decides that the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group shall serve the paris agreement ; 2. assigns any future and emerging adaptation -related work necessary for the effective
providing relevant scientific and technical information and sharing knowledg e ; 5. also invites the consultative group of experts and the least developed countries expert group , in line with their mandates , as appropriate , ensuring efficiency and consistency , to work together on training for a
lities for recognizing the adaptation efforts of developing country parties 8. notes the existing work of the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group related to synthesizing information on specific adaptation themes and on relevant lessons learned and good practices ; 9.
e adaptation efforts of developing country parties ; 13. requests the secretariat , under the guidance of the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group and in collaboration with relevant stakeholders , to prepare synthesis reports every two years starting in 2020 on specif
 and the paris committee on capacity -building , to consider , taking into account the recommendations of the adaptation committee and the least developed countries exper t group,5 as well as relevant submissions from parties and observer organizations , ways to facilitate the mobilization of suppo
to assist the least developed country parties and other developing country parties , drawing on the work of the adaptation committee , the least developed countries expert group an d other relevant bodies , as appropriate , in building or strengthening their enabling environments , policy framework
viewing the adequacy and effectiveness of adaptation and support 32. notes the constraints encountered by the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group in developing methodologies , including the differences in national circumstances in relation to adaptation , the difficu
ia and other relevant stakeholders to undertake further technical work , building on the existing work of the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group , in collaboration with the standing committee on finance , and taking i nto consideration ongoing relevant work under an
g methodologies for reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of adaptation and support ; 35. also invites the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group , in collaboration with the standing committee on finance , and relevant experts to contribute to the technical work refe
her relevant organizations , as well as bilateral and multilateral agencies , to submit by april 2020 to the adaptati on committee and the least developed countries expert group information on gaps , challenges , opportunities and options associated with methodologies for reviewing the adequacy and
ly those that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change and have significant capacity constraints , such as the least developed countries and small island developing states , considering the need for public and grant -based resour ces for adaptation ; ( k ) information on
tive participation of all relevant stakeholders and takes into account sustainable development , gender , the special circumstances of the least developed countries and small island developing state s , and the enhancement of indigenous capacities and endogenous technologies ; ( c ) be results -ori
) are : ( a ) building on and enhancing th e transparency arrangements under the convention , recognizing the special circumstances of the least developed countries ( ldcs ) and small island developing states ( sids ) , and implementing the transparency framework in a facilitative , non -intrusive 
ies , in accordance with existing practices ; 12. invites developed country parties to mobilize support for capacity -building so that the least developed countries , small island developing states and other developing countries can effectively participate in the global stocktake and take up releva
 with 2 members each from the five regional groups of the united nations and 1 member each from the small island developing states and the least developed countries , taking into account the goal of gende r balance . 6. the cma shall elect members of the committee as well as an alternate for each m
y particular attention to the respective national capabilities and circumstances of parties , recognizing the special circumstances of the least developed countries and small island d eveloping states , at all stages of the process , in accordance with the provisions of the paris agreement , includ
n to the national capabilities a nd circumstances of the party concerned . special circumstances of small island developing states and the least developed countries , as well as situations of force majeure , should also be recognized , where relevant . 29. the party concerned may provide to the co 
ly those that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change and have significant capacity constraints , such as the least developed countries and small island developing states , considering the need for public and grant -based resources for adaptation ; 18. takes note of the
 be composed of 14 members , of which : ( a ) two members from each of the five united nations regional groups ; ( b ) one member from the least developed countries ; ( c ) one member from the small island develo ping states ; ( d ) two members from relevant intergovernmental organizations.1 5. by 
in a timely manner and invites the contributors to ensure the sustainability of the resources of the fund ; 41. highlights the role of the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund in supporting actions by developing countries to address climate change , welcomes the pledge
 ) three members from latin america and the caribbean ; ( d ) two members from small island developing states ; ( e ) two members from the least developed countries ; ( f ) one member from a developing country party not included in the categories listed above . iii . modalities of work 5. the trans
re ss , effectiveness and performance of the adaptation committee ................................ ... 61 11/cma.4 matters relating to the least developed countries ................................ ....................... 62 united nations fccc /pa/cma/2022/ 10/add.2 distr . : general 17 march 2023
 giving special consideration , including in terms of support for participation , to experts from developing countries , particularl y the least developed countries and small island developing states ; 13. also requests the secretariat to include any cases of persistent inconsistencies and/or non-r
e meeting of the par ties to the paris agreement at its fifth session on : ( i ) further consideration of the special circumstances of the least developed countries and small island developing states ; fccc/pa/cma/2022/ 10/add . 2 4 ( ii ) the modalities for reviewing information that is confidenti
 mitigation outcomes and ensuring avoidance of double counting . ( b ) other 19. the international registry administrator shall assist the least developed countries and small island develo ping states that use the international registry with functions and processes , as necessary , subject to the a
ective national capabilities and circumstances of participating developing coun try parties and recognize the special circumstances of the least developed countries and small island developing states . 9. the article 6 technical expert review shall be implemented in a facilitative , non - intrusive
 align with the format of the technical expert review referred to in decision 18/cma.1 , annex , chapter vii , whenever possible . 20. the least developed countries and small island developing states may choose to participate in the same centralized review as a group , to the extent possible . vi .
erts , to the extent possible . when selecting members of the technical expert review team for centralized reviews of submissions from the least developed countries and small island developing sta tes , the secretariat shall strive to include technical experts from the least developed countries and
rom the least developed countries and small island developing sta tes , the secretariat shall strive to include technical experts from the least developed countries and small island developing states , while at the same time ensuring that those experts do not participate in reviews for the party th
lso be available . additional regional training seminars targeted at technical experts from d eveloping country parties , particularly the least developed countries and small island developing states , may be organized . v. courses of the training programme 8. the following courses relating to the 
 , to be specified by the supervisory body . 58. all the fees referred to in paragraphs 50 –55 above shall be waived for activities in the least developed countries and small island developing states . 59. the supervisory body may adjust and implement the fee structure and levels within the boundar
-balanced representation , as follows : ( a ) two members from each of the five united nations regional groups ; ( b ) one member from the least developed countries ; ( c ) one member from small island developing states ( decisi on 3/cma.3 , annex , para . 4 ) . b. nomination and election 4. the cm
1 10th plenary meeting 20 november 2022 1 fccc/sb/2021/6 , annex . fccc/pa/cma/2022/ 10/add.2 62 decision 11/cma.4 matters relating to the least developed countries the conference of the parties and the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement , recalli
.20 , 1/cp.21 , 19/cp.21 , 16/cp.24 , 7/cp.25 , 15/cp.26 , 11/cma.1 and 19/cma.1 , having considered the report on the 42nd meeting of the least developed countries expert group,1 underscoring the importance of continued implementation by the green climate fund of the mandate given to it in decisio
ed implementation by the green climate fund of the mandate given to it in decision 1/cp.21 , paragraph 46 , 1. welcome the progress of the least developed countries expert group in implementing its work progr amme for 2022 –2023,2 including its provision of support to the least developed countries 
 the least developed countries expert group in implementing its work progr amme for 2022 –2023,2 including its provision of support to the least developed countries for developing project concepts for implementing adaptation actions associated with the priorities in their national adaptation plans 
ng adaptation actions associated with the priorities in their national adaptation plans ; 3 2. also welcome the successful c onduct by the least developed countries expert group of the national adaptation plan writing workshop for asia -pacific least developed countries held in siem reap , cambodia
t of cambodia for hosting the workshop referred to in paragraph 2 above and the government of botswana for hosting the 42nd meeting of the least developed countries expert group and nap expo 2022 and express their gratitude to the government of ireland for providing financial support for the work o
xpert group and nap expo 2022 and express their gratitude to the government of ireland for providing financial support for the work of the least developed countries expert group ; 4. express their appreciation to the least developed countries expert group and the secretariat for their valuabl e wor
 ireland for providing financial support for the work of the least developed countries expert group ; 4. express their appreciation to the least developed countries expert group and the secretariat for their valuabl e work in supporting adaptation in the least developed countries ; 5. also express 
ir appreciation to the least developed countries expert group and the secretariat for their valuabl e work in supporting adaptation in the least developed countries ; 5. also express their appreciation to the organizations that contributed to designing and conducting the workshop referred to in par
 organizations that contributed to designing and conducting the workshop referred to in paragraph 2 above ; 6. welcome the progress of the least developed countries expert group in developing technical guidelines for the implementation of national adaptation plans4 and note that those guidelines ma
orming the design and provision of support for the implementation of national adaptation plans ; 7. also n ote the limited progress of the least developed countries on the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans and the need for enhanced support of the least developed countries
the least developed countries on the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans and the need for enhanced support of the least developed countries to advance the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans ; 8. further note that , as at 14 november 2022 , 17 of th
/ 10/add.2 63 9. reiterate and recall decision 1/cp.21 , paragraph 46 , and note decision 16/cp.27 in relation to enhancing support to the least developed countries for the formulation and implementation of national adaptation plans ; 10. underscore the importance of developing project pipelines an
project pipelines and proposals for implementing adaptation actions associated with the priorities in the national adaptation plans of the least developed countries and encourage relevant organizations , as well as operating entities of the financial mechanism , to enhance support to the least deve
oped countries and encourage relevant organizations , as well as operating entities of the financial mechanism , to enhance support to the least developed countries in this regard ; 11. note with appreciation the financial pledges , totalling usd 70.6 million , made by the governments of denmark , 
ts of denmark , finland , germany , ireland , slovenia , sweden and switzerland and the government of the walloon region of belgium to the least developed countries fund and urge additional contributions to the fund ; 12. request the least developed countries expert group to enhance the support pro
ent of the walloon region of belgium to the least developed countries fund and urge additional contributions to the fund ; 12. request the least developed countries expert group to enhance the support provided to the least develop ed countries for aligning national adaptation plans and nationally d
ed to the least develop ed countries for aligning national adaptation plans and nationally determined contributions ; 13. also request the least developed countries expert group to continue to support the least developed countries in integrating gender considerations into the formulat ion and imple
ion plans and nationally determined contributions ; 13. also request the least developed countries expert group to continue to support the least developed countries in integrating gender considerations into the formulat ion and implementation of national adaptation plans ; 14. welcome the developme
tegrating gender considerations into the formulat ion and implementation of national adaptation plans ; 14. welcome the development by the least developed countries expert group of its draft rules of procedure ; 15. adopt the rules of procedure of the least developed countries expert group containe
me the development by the least developed countries expert group of its draft rules of procedure ; 15. adopt the rules of procedure of the least developed countries expert group contained in the annex ; 16. encourage the least developed countries expert group to prioritize the implementation of the
s of procedure ; 15. adopt the rules of procedure of the least developed countries expert group contained in the annex ; 16. encourage the least developed countries expert group to prioritize the implementation of the elements of its mandate in accordance with the needs of the least developed count
least developed countries expert group to prioritize the implementation of the elements of its mandate in accordance with the needs of the least developed countries and the availability of resources ; 17. invite parties and relevant organizations to contin ue to provide resources to support impleme
s ; 17. invite parties and relevant organizations to contin ue to provide resources to support implementation of the work programme of the least developed countries expert group . fccc/pa/cma/2022/10/add.2 64 annex rules of procedure of the least developed countries expert group i. scope 1. these r
ntation of the work programme of the least developed countries expert group . fccc/pa/cma/2022/10/add.2 64 annex rules of procedure of the least developed countries expert group i. scope 1. these rules of procedure shall apply to the least developed countries expert group ( leg ) in conjunction wit
10/add.2 64 annex rules of procedure of the least developed countries expert group i. scope 1. these rules of procedure shall apply to the least developed countries expert group ( leg ) in conjunction with 5/cp.7 , 29/cp.7 , 7/cp.9 , 4/cp.10 , 4/cp.1 1 , 8/cp.13 , 6/cp.16 , 5/cp.17 , 12/cp.18 , 3/c
oting . 17. the chair shall perform the following functions : 2 officers shall be elected in accordance with the terms of reference of the least developed countries expert group contained in the annex to decision 29/cp.7 , and as per the decision of the leg to also appoint a lusophone ra pporteur .
osed of the following : ( a ) two members from each of the five recognized united nations regional groups ; ( b ) one member each from the least developed countries and small island developing states ; ( c ) two members of the executive committee , nominated by the executive committee from among it
n fund to support developing country parties that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change , in particular the least developed countries and small island developing states , in i mplementing their national adaptation plans and adaptation communications , including those 
 particular attention to the respectiv e national capabilities and circumstances of parties , recognizing the special circumstances of the least developed countries and small island developing states , at all stages of the process , in accordance with the provisions of the paris agreement , includi
on to the national capabilities and circumstances of the party concerned . special circumstances of small island developing states and the least developed countries , as well as situations of force majeure , should also be recognized , where relevant . “ 29 . the party concerned may provide to the 
adaptation in developing country parties in response to their growing needs , including contributions made to the adaptation f und and the least developed countries fund , which represent significant progress compared with previous efforts ; 18. urges developed country parties to at least double th
s the meeting of the parties to th e paris agreement at its fourth session ( november 2022 ) , on : ( a ) the special circumstances of the least developed countries and small island developing states ; ( b ) elaboration of further guidance in relation to corresponding adjustments for multi- year an
operative approaches ; ( b ) help parties ensure that cooperative approaches in which they participate support ambition ; ( c ) assist the least developed countries and small island developing states in meet ing the participation requirements as set out in chapter ii of the annex ( participation ) 
erm low-emission development strateg y , if it has submitted one , and the long -term goals of the paris agreement . 5. in relation to the least developed countries and small island developing states , pursuant to articl e 4 , paragraph 6 , their special circumstances shall be recognized where this
ted operational entities ; ( f ) ensure the implementation of the requirements referred to in paragraph 29 of the annex in relation to the least developed countries and small island developing states ; ( g ) consid er ways to encourage participation by small and micro businesses in the mechanism , 
 developing states ; ( g ) consid er ways to encourage participation by small and micro businesses in the mechanism , in particular in the least developed countries and small island developing states ; ( h ) consider opportunities to engage with the local communities and indigenous peoples platfor 
-balanced representation , as follows : ( a ) two members from each of the five united nations regional groups ; ( b ) one member from the least developed countries ; ( c ) one member from small island developing states . 1 “ article ” refers to an article of the paris agreement , unless otherwise 
 the implementation of its ndc and its long- term low ghg emission development strategy , if it has submitted one . 29. in relation to the least developed countries and small island developing states , pursuant to article 4 , paragraph 6 , their special circumstances shall be recognized where these
tion , including in terms of support for participating in the training programme , to experts from developing countries , particularly the least developed countries and small island developing states ; 35. notes that the information r eported pursuant to decision 18/cma.1 , annex , chapter iv , is 
lso be available . additional regional training seminars targeted at technical experts from dev eloping country parties , particularly the least developed countries and small island developing states , may be organized . e. courses of the training programme 10. the following courses relating to inf
 resources from the adaptation fund ) , resulting in a total number of accredited implementing entities of 33 national ( of which 9 in the least developed countries and 7 in small island developing states ) , 14 multilateral and 7 regional implementing entities , of which 31 were reaccredited ( 16 
 be composed of 14 members , of which : ( a ) two members from each of the five united nations regional groups ; ( b ) one member from the least developed countries ; ( c ) one member from the small island developing states ; ( d ) two members from relevant intergovernmental organizations.1 5. by t
e conference of the parties ( cop ) on its activities as an operating entity of the financial mechanism , including the information on the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund , and other re levant gef policy , information and evaluation documents ; ( c ) the annual re
 reports of the standing committee on finance ; ( g ) the reports on the work programme on long -term finance ; 1 ( h ) the reports of the least developed countries expert group , the adaptation committee and the consultative group of experts on national communications from parties not included in 
 resources from the adaptation fund ) , resulting in a total number of accredited implementing entities of 33 national ( of which 9 in the least developed countries and 7 in small island developing states ) , 14 multilateral and 7 regional implementing entities , of which 31 were reaccredited ( 16 
e conference of the parties ( cop ) on its activities as an operating entity of the financial mechanism , including the information on the least developed countries fund and the fccc/kp/cmp/2021/ 8/add.1 13 special climate change fund , and other relevant gef policy , information and evaluation doc
 be composed of 14 members , of which : ( a ) two members from each of the five united nations regional groups ; ( b ) one member from the least developed countries ; ( c ) one member from the small island developing states ; ( d ) two members from relevant intergovernmental organizations.1 5. by t
resources from the adaptation fund ) , resulting in a total number of accredited implementing entities of 34 national ( of which 10 in the least developed countries and 7 in small island developing states ) , 14 multilateral and 9 regional im plementing entities , of which 33 were reaccredited ( 17
rving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement at its first session ; adaptation 41. requests the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group to jointly develop modalities to recognize the adaptation efforts of developing country parties , as referred to in artic
ticular in developing countries , taking into account decision 1/cp.16 , paragraph 30 ; 45. also requests the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group , in collaboration with the standing committee on finance and other relev ant institutions , to develop methodologies , a
referred to in article 7 , paragraph 14 ( c ) , of the agreement ; 46. further requests the green climate fund to expedite support for the least developed countries and other developing country parties for the formulation of national adaptation plans , consistent with decisi ons 1/cp.16 and 5/cp.17
e work of and involve , as appropriate , existing bodies and expert groups under the convention including the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group , as well as relevant organizations and expert bodies outside the convention , to develop recommendations for integrated 
 and efficient application and approval procedures , and through continued readiness support to developing country parties , including the least developed countries and small island developing states , as appropriate ; fccc/cp/2015/10/add.1 10 technology development and t ransfer 65. takes note of 
h two members each from the five regional groups of the united nations and one member each from the small island developing states and the least developed countries , while taking into account the goal of gender balance ; 103. requests the ad hoc working group on the paris agreement to deve lop the
e effects of climate change , as provided for in the convention , taking full account of the specific needs and specia l situations of the least developed countries with regard to funding and transfer of technology , recognizing that parties may be affected not only by climate change , but also by 
 9 , 10 and 11 , recognizing that enhanced support for developing country parties will allow for higher ambition in their actions . 6. the least developed countries and small island developing states may prepare and communicate strategies , plans and actions for low greenhouse ga s emission s devel
ly those that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change and have significant capacity constraints , such as the least developed countries and small island developing states , considering the need for public and grant -based resources for adaptation . 5. developed co untry
ial resources through simplified approval procedures and enhanced readiness support for developing country parties , in particular for the least developed countries and small island developing st ates , in the context of their national climate strategies and plans . article 10 1. parties share a lo
ment should enhance the capacity and ability of developing country parties , in particular countries with the least capacity , such as the least developed countries , and those that are particularly vulnerable to the ad verse effects of climate change , such as small island developing states , to t
ts the technology executive committee , in collaboration with the climate technology centre and network , the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group , to consider how it can help parties align their technology needs assessments with th e process to formulate and impleme
to formulate and implement national adaptation plans , noting with appreciation the contributions made by developed country parties to the least developed countries fund and the special cl imate change fund , emphasizing the need to align technical support provided to developing countr y parties fo
plans contained in decision 5/cp.17 and subsequent related decisions , welcoming relevant publications of the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group pertaining to the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans disseminated at this session , noting deci
nd technical support to developing country parties for the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans ; 10. requests the least developed countries expert group and the adaptation committee to consider how they can provide more information on accessing funding from the green climat
ccc/cp/2015/10/add.2 6 from relevant events , including the nap expos , and information from other relevant sources ; ( d ) to request the least developed countries expert group , in collaboration with the adaptation committee , to organize a meeting of party experts , at which the report referred 
 a view to providing a summary of progress made in the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans ; ( e ) to request the least developed countries expert group , in collaboration with the adaptation committee and with the support of the secretariat , to prepare a report on the mee
y developed country parties , in accordance with decision 1/cp.16 , including financial contributions made to the green climate fund , the least developed countries fun d and the adaptation fund , providing further clarity to and predictability of public climate finance flows from 2015 to 2020 ; 1 
he implementation of the sixth replenishment of the global environment facility,1 also welcoming the pledges and contributions made to the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund , noting the recommendations of the s tanding committee on finance contained in its report to
global environment facility,2 1. notes that the global environment facility has supported i mplementation of the remaining elements of the least developed countries work programme , including the update and implementation of national adaptation programmes of action , by providing funding to project
ages additional voluntary financial contributions to provide support for the national adaptation plan process through contributions to the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund ; 5. welcomes the addition of eight project agencies to the network of the global environment
 environment facility ; 6. notes that the independent evaluation office of the global environment facility is carrying out a review of the least developed countries fund ; 1 fccc/cp/2015/4 and add.1 . 2 fccc/cp/2015/8 , annex v. 3 see global environment facility document gef/a.5/07/rev.01 . availab
ession ( november 2016 ) ; 8. requests the global environment facility to carry out a t echnical review of the programme priorities of the least developed countries fund , taking into account the independent review referred to in paragraph 6 above , and to focus the technical review on , inter alia
 the technical review on , inter alia : ( a ) undertaking pilot concrete climate change acti vities that are particularly relevant for the least developed countries ; ( b ) enhancing longer -term institutional capacity to design and execute the activities referred to in paragraph 8 ( a ) above ; 9.
the implementation of the activities referred to in decision 1/cp.16 , paragraph 70 ........ 15 19/cp . 21 extension of the mandate of the least developed countries expert group .............. 16 20/cp.21 technical review in 2016 of greenhouse gas inventories from parties included in annex i to the
ces continues to be a challenge for the implementation of article 6 of the convention for parties , in particu lar african countries , the least developed countries and small island developing states , reaffirming the importance of taking into account gender aspects and the need to promote the effe
enary meeting 10 december 2015 1 < http : //unfccc.int/4531 > . fccc/cp/2015/10/add.3 16 decision 19/cp.21 extension of the mandate of the least developed countries expert group the conference of the parties , recalling decisions 5/cp.7 , 7/cp.7 , 27/cp.7 , 28/cp.7 , 29/cp.7 , 7/cp.9 , 4/cp.10 , 4/
.10 , 4/cp.11 , 8/cp.13 , 6/cp.16 , 3/cp.17 , 5/cp.17 , 12/cp.18 and 3/cp.20 , recognizing the specific needs and special situation of the least developed countries under article 4 , paragraph 9 , of the convention , having considered the reports on the meetings of the least developed countries exp
 of the least developed countries under article 4 , paragraph 9 , of the convention , having considered the reports on the meetings of the least developed countries expert group , the views of parties on the work of the least developed countries expert group , t he report on the stocktaking meeting
on , having considered the reports on the meetings of the least developed countries expert group , the views of parties on the work of the least developed countries expert group , t he report on the stocktaking meeting on the work of the least developed countries expert group and the synthesis repo
the views of parties on the work of the least developed countries expert group , t he report on the stocktaking meeting on the work of the least developed countries expert group and the synthesis report on the progress , need for continuation and terms of reference of the least developed countries 
 the least developed countries expert group and the synthesis report on the progress , need for continuation and terms of reference of the least developed countries expert group,1 noting the importance of t he least developed countries expert group as a body that provides high -quality and relevant
rtance of t he least developed countries expert group as a body that provides high -quality and relevant information on adaptation for the least developed countries , also noting that the least developed country parties continue to require support for , inter alia , the p rocess to formulate and im
ent national adaptation plans , engagement with the green climate fund , regional approaches to adaptation , and the implementation of the least developed countries work programme , 1. decides to extend the mandate of the least devel oped countries expert group under its current terms of reference 
des to extend the mandate of the least devel oped countries expert group under its current terms of reference ; 2 2. also decides that the least developed countries expert group should be mandated to provide technical guidance and advice on : ( a ) the integration of climate change adaptation into 
eement and the decisions adopted by the conference of the parties at its twenty -first session , as determined by parties ; 3. invites the least developed countries expert group to consider the need to update the least developed countries work programme and to make recommendations for consideration
wenty -first session , as determined by parties ; 3. invites the least developed countries expert group to consider the need to update the least developed countries work programme and to make recommendations for consideration by the subsidiary body for implementation at its forty -eighth session ( 
ations being forwarded to the conference of the parties at its twenty -fourth session ( november 2018 ) , as appropriate ; 4. requests the least developed countries expert group , in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2 above , when developing its two -year rolling work programme to take into account
ke into account the compilation of elements contained in annex i to document fcc c/sbi/2015/8 and the compilation of gaps and needs in the least developed countries , considered at this session ; 4 5. also requests the least developed countries expert group to invite the green climate fund secretar
 c/sbi/2015/8 and the compilation of gaps and needs in the least developed countries , considered at this session ; 4 5. also requests the least developed countries expert group to invite the green climate fund secretariat to its meetings , as appropriate ; 6. furthe r requests the least developed 
 developed countries expert group to invite the green climate fund secretariat to its meetings , as appropriate ; 6. furthe r requests the least developed countries expert group , recognizing its good collaboration with the global environment facility , to continue to invite the global environment 
 , including by inviting members of these bodies to participate , as appropriate , in its meetings ; 8. decides that the membership of the least developed countries exper t group should remain at 13 members ; 9. encourages the least developed countries expert group to invite representatives of regi
s meetings ; 8. decides that the membership of the least developed countries exper t group should remain at 13 members ; 9. encourages the least developed countries expert group to invite representatives of regional centres or networks to its meetings as observers , as appropriate ; 10. also encour
rt group to invite representatives of regional centres or networks to its meetings as observers , as appropriate ; 10. also encourages the least developed countries expert group to invite relevant regional centres to nominate one focal point each for the least developed countries expert group with 
0. also encourages the least developed countries expert group to invite relevant regional centres to nominate one focal point each for the least developed countries expert group with a view to enhancing collaboration with those centres ; 11. invites the least developed countries expert group to inv
ocal point each for the least developed countries expert group with a view to enhancing collaboration with those centres ; 11. invites the least developed countries expert group to invite representatives of global programmes , projects and/or networks that support the process to formulate and imple
xperiences and lessons learned ; 12. decides that , in accordance with decision 7/cp.9 , paragraph 2 , new experts may be nominated to the least developed countries expert group or existing members of the group may continue in office , as determined by the respective regions or groups , taking into
ragraph 2 ; 13. also decides to review , at its twenty -sixth session , the progress , need for continuation and terms of reference of the least developed countries expert group , with a view to adopting a decision thereon , taking into account , as appropriate , new processes and needs that may ar
ry body for implementation to init iate the re view referred to in paragraph 13 above at its fifty - second session : ( a ) to request the least developed countries expert group to convene before june 2020 , with the assistance of the secretariat , a meeting with representatives of parties and rele
, fccc/sbi/2015/inf.6 and fccc/sbi/2015/inf.14 . fccc/cp/2015/10/add.3 18 ( b ) to invite parties to submit their views on the work of the least developed countries expert group via the submissions portal5 by 1 february 2020 , for consideration by the subsidiary bo dy for implementation at its fif 
iew ; ( d ) to request the secretariat to prepare a synthesis report on the progress , need for continuation and terms of reference of the least developed countries expert group based on submissions from parties , reports of the least developed countries expert gr oup , the report of the stocktakin
d for continuation and terms of reference of the least developed countries expert group based on submissions from parties , reports of the least developed countries expert gr oup , the report of the stocktaking meeting referred to in paragraph 1 4 ( c ) above and other relevant information for cons
lementation at its fifty-second session , as input to the review ; 15. requests the secretariat to cont inue to facilitate the work of the least developed countries expert group . 10th plenary meeting 10 december 2015 5 < http : //www.unfccc.int/5900 > . fccc/cp/2015/10/add.3 19 decision 2 0/cp.21 
and adaptation to climate change 1 301 172 23 supporting the implementation of the cancun adaptation framework 5 340 425 24 supporting the least developed countries and the least developed countries expert group 3 389 096 25 supporting activities relating to climate change science , research and sy
 301 172 23 supporting the implementation of the cancun adaptation framework 5 340 425 24 supporting the least developed countries and the least developed countries expert group 3 389 096 25 supporting activities relating to climate change science , research and systematic observation 534 230 26 su
hall serve in their personal capacity : ( a ) two members from each of the five united nations regional groups ; ( b ) one member from the least developed countries ; ( c ) one member from the small island developing states . 3. six representatives from bodies established unde r the convention and 
boration between the adaptation committee and other constituted bodies and institutional arrangements under the convention , including the least developed countries expert group , the nairobi work programme on impacts , vulnerability and adaptation to climate change , the tec hnology executive comm
 examination process on adaptation , consisting of members of the standing committee on finance , the technology executive committee , the least developed countries expe rt group and observer constituencies ; 7. requests the adaptation committee , in conducting the technical examination process on 
 3/cp.17 , 5/cp.17 , 12/cp.18 , 18/cp.19 , 3/cp.20 , 1/cp.21 and 4/cp.21 , welcoming the progress made by the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group in the fulfilment o f their respective mandates relating to providing information on accessing funding from the green cli
in paragraph 4 above in order to advance the formulation of their national adaptation plans ; 7. requests the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group to continue their respecti ve engagement with the green climate fund and to continue to include information on that engag
aptat ion plans were technically cleared by the global environment facility but , as at 10 november 2016 , were awaiting funding under the least developed countries fund ; 10. encourages developed country parties to contribute to the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fun
mber 2016 , were awaiting funding under the least developed countries fund ; 10. encourages developed country parties to contribute to the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund and invites additional voluntary financial contributions to the least developed countries fun
 to the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund and invites additional voluntary financial contributions to the least developed countries fund , the special climate change fund and other funds under the financial mechanism , as appropriate , recognizing the importance of 
 to be further enhanced ; ( d ) access to adaptation finance remains a challenge , particularly for small island developing states and the least developed countries ; ( e ) better information needs to be generated for more efficient planning , including through enhanced tracking of adaptation fl ow
 and efficient application and approval procedures , and through continued readiness support to developing country parties , including the least developed countries and small island developing states , as ap propriate , and in accordance with board decisions ; 3 in decision 1/cp.16 , paragraph 70 ,
urages the board to implement its decision b.04/08 to develop modalities to support a ctivities enabling private sector involvement in the least developed countries and small island developing states , and to seek opportunities to engage with the private sector , including local actors , on adaptat
facility to the conference of the parties and its addend a report s , including on the technical review of the programme priorities of the least developed countries fund,1 noting the draft decision on the guidance to the global environment facility prepared by the standing committee on finance , as
al mechanism of the convention , in its seventh replenishment programming , to continue to assist developing countries , in particular the least developed countries and small island developing states , in accessing resources in an efficient manner ; 4. also reque sts the global environment facility
enishment , and to conti nue to promote synergies across its focal areas ; 14. welcomes the conclusions of the “ program evaluation of the least developed countries fund ” by the global environment facility ’ s independent evaluation office ; 7 15. requests the global environment facility , as t he
he global environment facility , as t he operating entity of the financial mechanism of the convention entrusted with the operation of the least developed countries fund , to continue to enhance capacity development in the least developed countries for the development of project proposals with a fo
 of the convention entrusted with the operation of the least developed countries fund , to continue to enhance capacity development in the least developed countries for the development of project proposals with a focus on identifying potential funding sources , both national and international , and
6. encourages the global environment facility to continue to track , review and report on the sustainability of projec t outcomes from the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund ; 4 global environment facility document gef/c.50/05 . 5 global environment facility document
ronment facility ( gef ) to the cop on its activities as an operating entity of the financial mechanism , including the information on the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund , and other relevant gef po licy and information documents ; ( e ) the reports from the gef i
e from 2014 to 2020 , including any available information on quantitative and qualitative elements of a pathway ; ( n ) the reports of the least developed countries expert group and the consultative group of experts on national communications from parties not included in annex i to the convention .
y to continue to provide financial resources to parties not included in annex i to the conv ention , in particular african countries , the least developed countries and small island developing states , in order to support activities related to the implementation of article 6 of the convention ; 12.
imate finance ; 8. welcomes with appreciation the pledges and announcements of parties , including pledges to the green climate fund , the least developed countries fund and the adaptation fund , and of international financial institutions , which provide further clarity to and predictability of cl
n africa received just 9 per cent of mdb financing but 30 per cent of bilateral finance reported to oecd . 42. with regard to flows to the least developed countries ( ldcs ) and small island developing states ( sids ) in the period 2015 –2016 , funding directed at the ldcs represented 24 per cent o
ence to suggest that the alignment of administrative functions between funds ( e.g . the global environment facility administration of the least developed countries fund and special climate change fund ) offers the best opportunity to keep administrativ e costs down . this is essential in order to 
f progress on adaptation ; 9. notes that funding has been made available for developing country parties under the green climate fund , the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund for the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans , and that other channel
and/or other adaptation planning processes amounting to usd 81 million , of which 6 proposals , amounting to usd 15 million , are from the least developed countries ; 11. also welcomes the approval by the least devel oped countries fund of 11 proposals , as at 30 september 2018 , from the least dev
ped countries ; 11. also welcomes the approval by the least devel oped countries fund of 11 proposals , as at 30 september 2018 , from the least developed countries for funding for the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans amounting to usd 55 million ; 12. notes the value of 
g engagement of the agrifood sector in resilience to climate change ; 4 14. welcomes the progress made by the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group in th eir respective engagement with the green climate fund on ways to enhance the process of accessing support for the f
ion plans and within its existing mandate and workplan , to consider gaps and needs that have been identified through relevant work of the least developed countries expert group and the adaptation committee and how to address them , and include relevant information thereon in its annual report for 
 affected by and at risk of displacement related to the adverse impacts of climate cha nge ; ( e ) invite the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group , in accordance with their mandates and workplans , and in collaboration with the executive committee , to assist develop
1 , 8/cp.13 , 6/cp.16 , 5/cp.17 , 12/cp.18 , 3/cp.20 , 4/cp.21 and 19/cp.21 , recognizing the specific needs and special situations of the least developed countries referred to in article 4 , paragraph 9 , of the convention , having considered the report on the 33rd meeting of the least developed c
t developed countries referred to in article 4 , paragraph 9 , of the convention , having considered the report on the 33rd meeting of the least developed countries expert group and the views of parties on the least developed countries work programme , acknowledging that , because of their developm
onvention , having considered the report on the 33rd meeting of the least developed countries expert group and the views of parties on the least developed countries work programme , acknowledging that , because of their development status , climate change risks magnify the development challenges fo
nt challenges for the least developed country parties , also acknowledging that the human , infrastructural and economic conditions of the least developed countries severely limit their capacities to participate effectively in the climate change process , noting the particular support needs of the 
ries severely limit their capacities to participate effectively in the climate change process , noting the particular support needs of the least developed countries with respect to addressing climate change , and the importance of the least developed countries work programme in this regard , also n
noting the particular support needs of the least developed countries with respect to addressing climate change , and the importance of the least developed countries work programme in this regard , also noting the relevance of climate change action to the achievement of the sustainable development g
n for the implementation of the elements of the work programme for the implementation of article 4 , paragraph 9 , of the convention ( the least developed countries work programme ) contained in decision 5/cp.7 , paragraphs 11 –17 ; 2. takes note of the support provided to the least developed count
least developed countries work programme ) contained in decision 5/cp.7 , paragraphs 11 –17 ; 2. takes note of the support provided to the least developed countries for the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans ; 2 3. decides to update the elements of the least developed coun
east developed countries for the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans ; 2 3. decides to update the elements of the least developed countries work programme as listed below in order to reflect the needs of the lea st developed countries , taking full account of the numerous g
rties ; ( b ) continue providing training , as needed , in negotiating skills and language to develop the capacity of negotiators from the least developed countries to participate effectively in the climate change process ; ( c ) supporting the process to formulate and implement nationa l adaptatio
n and the paris agreement , as needed ; 4. notes that support for the work programme should come from a variety of sources , including the least developed countries fund,3 the global environment facility , the green climate fund , and other bilateral and mu ltilateral sources within their respectiv
and other bilateral and mu ltilateral sources within their respective mandates , and the private sector , as appropriate ; 5. requests the least developed countries expert group to support , and encourages other relevant bodies and programmes under and outside the convention and the paris agreement
uding united nations entities , to assist with , in accordance with their respective mandates , as appropriate , the implementation of the least developed countries work programme and to include information on this in their reports , as appropria te ; 6. also requests the least developed countries 
 the least developed countries work programme and to include information on this in their reports , as appropria te ; 6. also requests the least developed countries expert group to continue considering ways to promote south –south cooperation in the implementation of the least developed countries w
s the least developed countries expert group to continue considering ways to promote south –south cooperation in the implementation of the least developed countries work programme . 7th plenary meeting 13 december 2018 3 see decision 5/cp.7 , paragraph 12. fccc/cp/2018/ 10/add.2 9 decision 17/cp.24
y those that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change and have significant capaci ty constraints , such as the least developed countries and small island developing states , considering the need for public and grant -based resources for adaptation ; 15. underlines the es
, as well as funds to support the participation of grass -roots local and indigenous peoples ’ communities from developing countries , the least developed countries and small island developing states , and encourage parti es and relevant organizations to share information on travel funding leading 
be composed of 14 members , of which : ( a ) two members from each of the five u nited nations regional groups ; ( b ) one member from the least developed countries ; ( c ) one member from the small island developing states ; ( d ) two members from relevant intergovernmental organizations.1 5. by t
overlapping with the previous reporting periods , including , as appropriate , the following : ( a ) the global environment facility , the least developed countries fund , the special climate change f und , the adaptation fund , the green climate fund and the unfccc trust fund for supplementary act
bringing th e total number of submitted national adaptation plans to 17 ; 1 2. takes note of the work of the a daptation committee and the least developed countries expert group on gaps and needs related to the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans , including the gaps and ne
on at its forty -seventh session ; 3 3. requests the a daptation committee , through its task force on national adaptation plans , and the least developed countries expert group to continue to include in their report s information on the gaps and needs related to the process to formulate and implem
on how to address them ; 4. invites constituted bodies and other organizations to provide informat ion to the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group on activities unde rtaken to address gaps and needs related to the process to formulate and implement national adaptation
mentation , at its fifty -third session ( n ovember 2020 ) , to consider information from the reports of the a daptation committee and the least developed countries expert group , including on gaps and needs and the implementation of national adaptation plans , and to take further action as appropr
network and the technology executive committee ; ( k ) the collaboration between the green climate fund , the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group ; ( l ) the steps agreed at the 24th meeting of the board to finalize , at the 25th meeting of the board , the draft stra
val of climate change projects and programmes approved during the reporting period under the global environm ent facility trust fund , the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund ; ( b ) the approval of minimum requirements fo r global environment facility trust fund agen
icy on monitoring6 and the evaluation policy ; 7 3. welcomes with appreci ation the contributions made by developed country parties to the least developed countries fund during the reporting period , amounting to usd 184 million,8 and the contribution made by switzerland to the special climate chan
ment facility to consider : ( a ) exploring ways to include in the fourth phase of the global project on technology needs ass essments the least developed countries and small island developing states that have never undertaken a t echnology needs assessment and have not been included in the fourth 
ntries in collecting and managing information and data on adaptation ; 10. requests the global environment facility , in administering the least developed countries fund , to continue facilitating the smooth transition of countries graduating from least develop ed country status by continuing to pr
g the smooth transition of countries graduating from least develop ed country status by continuing to provide approved funding through the least developed countries fund until the completion of projects approved by the least developed countries fund council prior to those countries ’ graduation fro
atus by continuing to provide approved funding through the least developed countries fund until the completion of projects approved by the least developed countries fund council prior to those countries ’ graduation from least developed country status ; 11. takes note of decision 7/cma.2 and decide
plans ................................................................................................ 27 10/cp.27 matters relating to the least developed countries ............................................................ 29 11/cp.27 santiago network for averting , minimizing and addressing los
luding for the formulation and implementation of national adaptation plans and adaptation communication s ; 23. highlights the role of the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund in supporting actions by developing countries to address climate change , 7 decision 1/cp.26 
 ) three members from latin america and the caribbean ; ( d ) two members from small island developing states ; ( e ) two members from the least developed countries ; ( f ) one member from a developing country party not included in the categories listed above . iii . modalities of work 5. the trans
 of constituted bodies , the operating entities of the financial mechanism , 6 the adaptation fund , the special climate change fund , the least developed countries fund and observer organizations in works hops under the koronivia joint work on agriculture ; 6. acknowledges that the koronivia joint
tion between parties , constituted b odies and workstreams , the operating entities of the financial mechanism , the adaptation fund , the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund in order to facilitate the implementation of action to address issues related to agricultu re
esentatives of the constituted bodies under the convention , the operating entities of the financial mechanism , the adaptation fund , the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund and observers to them ; 16. decides to establish the sharm el- sheikh online portal under the
adaptation plans1 and takes note of other relevant documents ; 2 2. welcomes the information provided by the adaptation committee3 and the least developed countries expert group4 on gaps and needs related to the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans and progress in implementi
ation plans , particularly in relation to the submission and review of proposals for funding ; 5. invites the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group , in line with their mandates , to continue formulating recommendations on ways to facilitate the mobilization of support
bmit the recommendations to the standing committee on finance for consideration ; 6. welcomes the work of the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group on gaps and needs related to the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans , including the needs refer
ns , as requested by the subsidiary body for implementation at its forty- seventh session ; 9 7. requests the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group to continue to identify the priority gaps and needs of developing countries relat ed to the process to formulate and impl
2 , available at https : //unfccc.int/topics/resilience/resources/documents -of-the-adaptation -committee , and the meeting reports of the least developed countries expert group f or 2019 –2022 , available at https : //unfccc.int/topics/resilience/resources/documents -on-the -ldc-expert -group . 3 
d decision 7/cp.25 , para . 3 . 9 fccc/sbi/2017/19 , para . 73. fccc/cp/2022/10/add.1 28 8. also requests the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group to enhance their work in addressing the priority gaps and needs , obstacles and challenges identified through their work 
rammes ; 10. invites other unfccc constituted bodies and relevant organizations to provide information to the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group on activities that have the aim of addressing gaps and needs related to the process to form ulate and implement national 
de support ; 11. notes that the technical resources developed and the scientific resources synthesized by the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group can assist developing countries in addressing gaps and needs related to the process to formulate and implement national a
 university press . available at https : //www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg2 . fccc/cp/2022/10/add.1 29 decision 10/cp.27 matters relating to the least developed countries the conference of the parties and the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement , recalli
.20 , 1/cp.21 , 19/cp.21 , 16/cp.24 , 7/cp.25 , 15/cp.26 , 11/cma.1 and 19/cma.1 , having considered the report on the 42nd meeting of the least developed countries expert group,1 underscoring the importance of continued implementation by the green climate fund of the mandate given to it in decisio
ed implementation by the green climate fund of the mandate given to it in decision 1/cp.21 , paragraph 46 , 1. welcome the progress of the least developed countries expert group in implementing its work programme for 2022– 2023,2 including its provision of support to the least developed countries f
f the least developed countries expert group in implementing its work programme for 2022– 2023,2 including its provision of support to the least developed countries for developing project concepts for implementing adaptation actions associated with the priorities in their national adaptation plans 
ing adaptation actions associated with the priorities in their national adaptation plans ; 3 2. also welcome the successful conduct by the least developed countries expert group of the national adaptation plan writing workshop for asia -pacific least developed countries held in siem reap , cambodia
 of cambodia for hosting the workshop referred to in paragraph 2 above and the government of botswana for hosting the 42 nd meeting of the least developed countries expert group and nap expo 2022 and express their gratitude to the government of ireland for providing financial support for the work o
xpert group and nap expo 2022 and express their gratitude to the government of ireland for providing financial support for the work of the least developed countries expert group ; 4. express their appreciation to the le ast developed countries expert group and the secretariat for their valuable wor
ir appreciation to the le ast developed countries expert group and the secretariat for their valuable work in supporting adaptation in the least developed countries ; 5. also express their appreciation to the organizations that contributed to designing and conducting the workshop referred to in par
 organizations that contributed to designing and conducting the workshop referred to in paragraph 2 above ; 6. welcome the progress of the least developed countries expert group in developing technical guidelines for the implementation of national adaptation plans4 and note that those guidelines ma
rming the design and provision of support for the implementation of national adaptation plans ; 7. also n ote the limited progres s of the least developed countries on the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans and the need for enhanced support of the least developed countries
the least developed countries on the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans and the need for enhanced support of the least developed countries to advance the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans ; 8. further note that , as at 14 november 2022 , 17 of th
2/10/add.1 30 9. reiterate and recall decision 1/cp.21 , paragraph 46 , and note decision 16/cp.27 in relation to enhancing support to the least developed countries for the formulation and implementation of national adaptation plans ; 10. underscore the importance of developing project pipelines an
roject pipelines and proposals for implementing adaptation actions associated w ith the priorities in the national adaptation plans of the least developed countries and encourage relevant organizations , as well as operating entities of the f inancial mechanism , to enhance support to the least dev
ped countries and encourage relevant organizations , as well as operating entities of the f inancial mechanism , to enhance support to the least developed countries in this regard ; 11. note wi th appreciation the financial pledges , totalling usd 70.6 million , made by the governments of denmark ,
ts of denmark , finland , germany , ireland , slovenia , sweden and switzerland and the government of the walloon region of belgium to the least developed countries fund and urge additional contributions to the fund ; 12. request the least developed countries expert group to enhance the support pro
ent of the walloon region of belgium to the least developed countries fund and urge additional contributions to the fund ; 12. request the least developed countries expert group to enhance the support provided to the least developed countries for aligning national adaptation plans and nationally de
 urge additional contributions to the fund ; 12. request the least developed countries expert group to enhance the support provided to the least developed countries for aligning national adaptation plans and nationally determined contributions ; 13. also request the least developed countries expert
ded to the least developed countries for aligning national adaptation plans and nationally determined contributions ; 13. also request the least developed countries expert group to continue to support the least developed countries in integrating gender considerations into the formulation and implem
ion plans and nationally determined contributions ; 13. also request the least developed countries expert group to continue to support the least developed countries in integrating gender considerations into the formulation and implementation of national adaptation plans ; 14. welcome the developmen
ntegrating gender considerations into the formulation and implementation of national adaptation plans ; 14. welcome the development by the least developed countries expert group of its draft rules of procedure ; 15. adopt the rules of procedure of the least developed countries expert group containe
me the development by the least developed countries expert group of its draft rules of procedure ; 15. adopt the rules of procedure of the least developed countries expert group contained in the annex ; 16. encourage the least developed countries expert group to prioritize the implementation of the
s of procedure ; 15. adopt the rules of procedure of the least developed countries expert group contained in the annex ; 16. encourage the least developed countries expert group to prioritize the implementation of the elements of its mandate in accordance with the needs of the least developed count
least developed countries expert group to prioritize the implementation of the elements of its mandate in accordance with the needs of the least developed countries and the availability of resources ; 17. invite parties and relevant organizations to continue to provide resources to support implemen
es ; 17. invite parties and relevant organizations to continue to provide resources to support implementation of the work programme of the least developed countries expert group . fccc/cp/2022/10/add.1 31 annex rules of procedure of the least developed countries expert group i. scope 1. these rules
lementation of the work programme of the least developed countries expert group . fccc/cp/2022/10/add.1 31 annex rules of procedure of the least developed countries expert group i. scope 1. these rules of procedure shall apply to the least developed countries expert group ( leg ) in conjunction wit
10/add.1 31 annex rules of procedure of the least developed countries expert group i. scope 1. these rules of procedure shall apply to the least developed countries expert group ( leg ) in conjunction with 5/cp.7 , 29/cp.7 , 7/cp.9 , 4/cp.10 , 4/cp.11 , 8/cp.13 , 6/cp.16 , 5/cp.17 , 12/cp.18 , 3/cp
oting . 17. the chair shall perform the following functions : 2 officers shall be elected in accordance with the terms of reference of the least developed countries expert group contained in the annex to decision 29/cp.7 , and as per the decision of the leg to also appoint a lusophone ra pporteur .
osed of the following : ( a ) two members from each of the five recognized united nations regional groups ; ( b ) one member each from the least developed countries and small island developing states ; ( c ) two members of the executive committee , nominated by the executive committee from among it
ng the significant role of public funds ; 5. welcomes the recent pledges made to the adaptation fund ( totalling usd 211.6 million ) , the least developed countries fund ( totalling usd 70.6 million ) , the special climate change fund ( totalling usd 35.0 million ) and the eighth replenishment of t
low ; 7. reiterates the need for grant -based resources in developing countries , in particular for adaptation , and in particular for the least developed countries and small island developing states ; 8. also reiterates that a significant amount of adaptation finance should flow through the operat
significant amount of adaptation finance should flow through the operating entities of the financial mechanism , the adaptation fund , the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund ; 9. emphasizes the need for further efforts to e nhance access to climate finance , includin
 k ) the continued collaboration of the green climate fund with the adaptation committee , the climate technology centre and network , the least developed countries expert group and the technology executive committee ; 4. requests the board to ensure that the conditions it applies to projects are n
ng countries that are particularly vulne rable to the adverse effects of climate change ; 15. invites the board to enhance support for the least developed countries , small island developing states and other developing countries in developing project pipelines and proposals , as well as for adaptat
ector during the eighth replenishment period ; 6. welcomes the increased allocation of resources to small island developing states and the least developed countries in the eighth replenishment of the global environmen t facility under the system for transparent allocation of resources , including t
land degradation . 4 global environment facility council document gef/c.59/07/rev.01 . fccc/cp/2022/10/add.2 28 financial resources to the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund in line with the global environment facility ’ s 2022 –2026 programming str ategy on adaptati
mate change fund in line with the global environment facility ’ s 2022 –2026 programming str ategy on adaptation to climate change for the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund ; 5 8. also encourages the global environment facility , in administering the least developed
developed countries fund and the special climate change fund ; 5 8. also encourages the global environment facility , in administering the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund , to support developing country parties in implementing national adaptation plans and other n
lans and other national adaptation planning processes and urges developed country parties to increase their voluntary contributions to the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund ; 9. encourages the global environment facility to work towards implementing its programming 
 encourages the global environment facility to work towards implementing its programming strategy on adaptat ion to climate change for the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund during the eighth replenishment of the global environment facility so as to effectively assis
gations at unfccc sessions , including those from grass -roots , local and indigenous peoples communities from developing co untries , the least developed countries and small island developing states parties , secretariat and observer organizations 2018 –2019 promotion of funds b.2 include in regul
 further consider ways to improve its access modalities for developing c ountry parties , including small island developing states and the least developed countries ; 1 fccc/cp/2017/7 . 2 see the j oint summary of the chairs of the 52nd global environment facility council meeting , paragraphs 24 an
organized in bonn , germany 1 017 582 option 2 : support for one delegate from each eligible party plus a second delegate from each of the least developed countries and each small island developing state to participate in a two -week session organized in bonn 1 561 042 option 3 : support for two de
k session organized in bonn 2 035 164 option 4 : support for two delegates from each eligible party plus a third delegate from each of the least developed countries and each small island developing state to participate in a two -week session organized in poland 2 880 338 note : report of the confer
adaptation in developing country parties in response to their growing needs , including contributions made to the adapta tion fund and the least developed countries fund , which represent significant progress compared with previous efforts ; 14. calls upon multilateral development banks , other fin
nfccc national focal points with a view to enhancing the dissemination of information between parties and the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group , as well as other releva nt organizations and programme partners , such as partners of the nairobi work programme on imp
n plans in making progress towards the global goal on adaptation , taking note of the potential capacity of the open nap initiative of the least developed countries expert group to accelerate the for mulation and implementation of national adaptation plans in the least developed countries and invit
iative of the least developed countries expert group to accelerate the for mulation and implementation of national adaptation plans in the least developed countries and inviting other developing countries to take part in this initiative , recognizing the continued support of the adaptation committe
 inviting other developing countries to take part in this initiative , recognizing the continued support of the adaptation committee , the least developed countries expert group and the secretariat to developing country parties on the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans , d
 –b ) above , information from relevant events , including the nap expos , and information from other relevant sources ; ( d ) request the least developed countries expert group , in collaboration with the adaptation committee , to organize a meeting of party experts , at which the report 1 https :
 , w ith a view to providing a summary of progress in the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans ; ( e ) request the least developed countries expert group , in collaboration with the adaptation committee and with the support of the secretariat , to prepare a report on the mee
 in accordance with decision 1/cp.16 ; 2. welcomes the recent pledges made to the adaptation fund ( totalling usd 356 million ) and to the least developed countries fund ( totalling usd 605.3 million ) ; 3. notes the continued efforts of developed country parties towards reaching the goal of mobili
nagement have tended to decrease over time . the alignment of administrative functions between funds ( e.g . the gef administration of the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund ) can streamline management and disbursement mechanisms . this is essential in order to retai
 under the convention , namely the gef , including the special climate funds managed by the gef ( the special climate c hange fund and the least developed countries fund ) , the green climate fund and the adaptation fund , also play a critical role in providing financial support for countries in fa
network and the technology executive committee ; ( g ) the collaboration between the green climate fund , the adaptation committee and the least developed countries expert group ; 4. welcomes the long- term vision on complementarity , coherence and collaboration between the green climate fund and t
 of the climate change projects and programmes approved during the reporting period under the global environment facility trust fund , the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund ; ( b ) integration of climate change priorities into its other focal areas and the reduction
om serving simultaneously as executing agencies ; 8. welcomes with appreciation the contributions made by developed country parties to the least developed countries fund , amounting to usd 605.3 million , and encourages additional voluntary financial contr ibutions to the least developed countries 
 the least developed countries fund , amounting to usd 605.3 million , and encourages additional voluntary financial contr ibutions to the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund to support adaptation and technology transfer ; 9. requests the global environment facility ,
6 revised terms of reference of the consultative group of experts ............................. 5 15/cp.26 extension of the mandate of the least developed countries expert group .............. 8 16/cp.26 local communities and indigenous peoples platform ................................ ............
 group of experts , in addition to current members from parties not included in annex i to the convention , one additional member from the least developed countries and one additional member from small island developing states , noting that this does not set a precedent for the consideration of the
experts , with a view to improving the technical analysis , taking into account the experience of non -annex i parties , in particular the least developed countries and small island developing states , in preparing their biennial update reports , and increasing the representation of the least devel
e group of experts , in providing technical advice and support , should , to the extent possible : ( a ) give special consideration to the least developed countries and small island developing states , includin g in the context of the need to improve the ability of experts to participate in technic
 plenary meeting 13 novemb er 2021 3 decision 18/cma.1 , annex . fccc/cp/2021/12/add.2 8 decision 15/cp.26 extension of the mandate of the least developed countries expert group the conference of the parties , recalling decisions 5/cp.7 , 29/cp.7 , 7/cp.9 , 4/cp.10 , 4/cp.11 , 8/cp.13 , 6/cp.16 , 5
nvention and the preamble to the paris agreement o n parties to it taking full account of the specific needs and special situations of the least developed countries in their actions with regard to funding and transfer of technology , noting the importance of adaptation for the least developed count
least developed countries in their actions with regard to funding and transfer of technology , noting the importance of adaptation for the least developed countries and the role of national adaptation plans in addressing national , subnational , sectoral and local , as well as regional and transbou
nd local , as well as regional and transboundary issues , having considered the reports on the 37th , 38th , 39th and 40th meetings of the least developed countries expert group , the report on the stocktaking meeting on the work of the group , the views of parties on the work of the group , and th
ontained therein,1 having also considered the views shared by parties during official events on this matter,2 recognizing the value of the least developed countries expert group in providing support for addressing the priority needs of the least developed countries , expressing its special apprecia
matter,2 recognizing the value of the least developed countries expert group in providing support for addressing the priority needs of the least developed countries , expressing its special appreciation to the least developed countries expert group on its twentieth anniversary , expressing its appr
group in providing support for addressing the priority needs of the least developed countries , expressing its special appreciation to the least developed countries expert group on its twentieth anniversary , expressing its appreciation to the least developed countries expert group for it s success
g its special appreciation to the least developed countries expert group on its twentieth anniversary , expressing its appreciation to the least developed countries expert group for it s successful work in implementing its work programme for 2015 –2021 and in supporting the preparation and implemen
me for 2015 –2021 and in supporting the preparation and implementation of national adaptation programmes of action , other elements of the least developed countries work programme , and the process to formulat e and implement national adaptation plans , recognizing the experience of the least devel
loped countries work programme , and the process to formulat e and implement national adaptation plans , recognizing the experience of the least developed countries expert group in successfully supporting the formulation and implementation of national adaptation programmes of action in the least de
ed countries expert group in successfully supporting the formulation and implementation of national adaptation programmes of action in the least developed countries , also recognizing the value of information provided by the least developed countries expert group , in collaboration with other const
n of national adaptation programmes of action in the least developed countries , also recognizing the value of information provided by the least developed countries expert group , in collaboration with other constituted bodies under the convention and the paris agreement , to the least developed co
st developed countries expert group , in collaboration with other constituted bodies under the convention and the paris agreement , to the least developed countries , and of the engagement of a wide range of organizations , including through the open nap initiative and the national adaptation plan 
 of organizations , including through the open nap initiative and the national adaptation plan technical working group , in supporting the least developed countries , noting the importance of the least developed countries expert group as a body that provides high -quality information on adaptation 
tive and the national adaptation plan technical working group , in supporting the least developed countries , noting the importance of the least developed countries expert group as a body that provides high -quality information on adaptation for the least developed countries , 1 fccc/sbi/2020/6 , f
oting the importance of the least developed countries expert group as a body that provides high -quality information on adaptation for the least developed countries , 1 fccc/sbi/2020/6 , fccc/sbi/2020/7 , fccc/sbi/2020/8 , fccc/sbi/2020/14 , fccc/sbi/2021/6 and fccc/sbi/2021/13 . 2 the event on e n
 , fccc/sbi/2020/7 , fccc/sbi/2020/8 , fccc/sbi/2020/14 , fccc/sbi/2021/6 and fccc/sbi/2021/13 . 2 the event on e nhancing su pport to the least developed countries : insights from a recent stocktaking meeting of the work of the least developed countries expert group ( for information , see https :
1/13 . 2 the event on e nhancing su pport to the least developed countries : insights from a recent stocktaking meeting of the work of the least developed countries expert group ( for information , see https : //unfccc.int/node/227958 ) ; the technical dialogue with parties and observers held by th
 observers held by the chair of the subsidiary body for implementation on experience , good practices and lessons learned from work of the least developed countries expert group to inform the review of the group ( for information , see https : //unfccc.int/node/257183 ) ; and the information event 
he group ( for information , see https : //unfccc.int/node/257183 ) ; and the information event on the work of the group in supporting the least developed countries on adaptation ( for information , see https : //unfccc.int/event/info_event_leg_sb2021 ) . fccc/cp/2021/12/add.2 9 recognizing that th
es on adaptation ( for information , see https : //unfccc.int/event/info_event_leg_sb2021 ) . fccc/cp/2021/12/add.2 9 recognizing that the least developed countries continue to require support for , inter alia , undertaking the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans , applyi n
lement national adaptation plans , applyi ng regional approaches to adaptation , engaging with the green climate fund and implementing the least developed countries work programme , noting the need to continue to support the least developed countries in achieving their vision of having produced the
ing with the green climate fund and implementing the least developed countries work programme , noting the need to continue to support the least developed countries in achieving their vision of having produced thei r first national adaptation plan by the end of 2020 or soon thereafter , 1. decides 
n of having produced thei r first national adaptation plan by the end of 2020 or soon thereafter , 1. decides to extend the mandate of the least developed countries expert group ( hereinafter referred to as the group ) under its current terms of reference ; 3 2. also decides that the next re view o
session ( 2026 ) , the midway point before t he review referred to in paragraph 2 above , as a way to reflect on the evolving needs of the least developed countries ; 4. invites the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement to review the progress of the 
rting implementation of the group ’ s work programme ; 8. requests the group to continue to provide tech nical guidance and support to the least developed countries for advancing the formulation and implementation of national adaptation plans , including in relation to the work on improving their a
 finance for adaptation , including sources other than the unfccc financial mechanism ; 11. requests the gr oup to continue to support the least developed countries in understanding the modalities for and ways of accessing relevant sources of financing , capacity -building and technology transfer f
in accordance with the group ’ s mandate ; 12. also requests the group , in collaboration with relevant constituted bodies , to assist the least developed countries in addressing adaptation -related provisions of the convention and the paris agreement , including the submission and updating of adap
standing committee on finance on matters relating to access to the green climate fund and other funds under the financial mechanism by the least developed countries for funding the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans ; 14. requests the group to continue to collaborate with 
ell as on work under the nairobi wo rk programme on impacts , vulnerability and adaptation to climate change , in providing support to the least developed countries for the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans and to include information thereon in its reports to the sub sidi
 the sub sidiary body for implementation ; 15. encourages the group to prioritize elements of its mandate on the basis of the needs of the least developed countries and the availability of resources ; 16. recognizes the positive engagement of a broad range of organizations , networks and experts in
ional adaptation plan technical working group ; 17. requests the group to mobilize more partners to address specific priority needs of the least developed countries , as appropriate ; 18. decides to adjust the composition of the group to be as follows : ( a ) five members from african states that a
 be composed of 14 members , of which : ( a ) two members from each of the five united nations regional groups ; ( b ) one member from the least developed countries ; ( c ) one member from the small island developing states ; ( d ) two members from relevant intergovernmental organizations.1 5. by t
