iss ions referred to in paragraph 17 above for consideration by the subsidiary body for implementation at its sixty -second session ( 2025 ) ; 19. urges developed country parties and invites other parties that provide resources on a voluntary basis , united nations o rganizations , specialized agen
eport on enhancing collaboration and promoting coherence and synergies with a view to addressing parties ’ evolving adaptation -related needs ; 7. urges developed country parties and invites other parties that provide resources on a voluntary basis to make available sufficient resources for the suc
ms with a view to improving access to international public support , as appropriate , and to enhancing the involvement of the private sector ; 23. urges developed country parties and invites other parties that provide resources on a voluntary basis , united nations entities and other relevant organ
le 13 and for the building of transparency -related capacity of developing co untry parties on a continuous basis ; fccc/pa/cma/2018/3/add.2 19 8. urges and requests the global environment facility , as an operating entity of the financial mechanism , throughout its replenishment cycles , to suppor
ally providing an avenue for parties to apply for funding for more than one report through the same application in each replenishment period ; 10. urges the global environment facility and its implementing and executing agencies and encourages the global environment facility council to consider opt
n the light of different national circumstances ; 7. also r ecalls the request to parties contained in decision 1/cp.2 1 , paragraph s 23–24 , and urges parties to consider the gap referred to in paragraph 5 above with a view to reflecting their highest possible ambition when responding to this req
o finance , technology transfer and capacity -building to address the mitigation and adaptation needs and priorities of developing countries ; 16. urges developed country pa rties to provide financial resources to assist developing country parties with respect to both mitigation and adaptation , in
rse effects of climate change for averting , minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change ; 32. urges the scaling -up of action and support , as appropriate , including finance , technology and capacity -building , for developing countries that are
fects of climate change for averting , minimizing and addressing loss and damage associate d with the adverse effects of climate change ; 33. also urges private and non -governmental organizations , funds and other stakeholders to scale up action and support , as appropriate , including finance , t
ce , relevant to supporting approaches to avert , minimize and address loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change ; 35. urges the broad range of bodies , organizations and funds under and outside the convention and the paris agreement to scale up support , including finan
e with article 4 , paragraph 2 , of the paris agreement ; 7 decision 1/cma.3 , para . 32 . 8 fccc/pa/cma/2022/4 . fccc/pa/cma/2022/ 10/add.1 5 22. urges parties that have not yet communicated new or updated nationally determined contributions to do so as soon as possible in advance of the fifth ses
s as necessary to align with the paris agreemen t temperature goal by the end of 2023 , taking into account different national circumstances ; 24. urges parties that have not yet done so to communicate , by the fifth session of the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to 
the intergovernmental panel on climate change ; 9 decision 1/cma.3 , para . 33 . 10 decision 1/cma.3 , para . 37. fccc/pa/cma/2022/ 10/add.1 6 34. urges parties to adopt a transformational approach to enhancing adaptive capacity , strengthe ning resilience and reducing vulnerability to climate chan
opt a transformational approach to enhancing adaptive capacity , strengthe ning resilience and reducing vulnerability to climate change ; 35. also urges developed country parties to urgently and significantly scale up their provision of climate finance , technology transfer and capacity -building f
recognizes the centrality of the role of the adaptation fund in the climate finance architecture , welcomes the new pledges made at this session , urges all contributors to fulfil their pledges in a timely manner and invites the contributors to ensure the sustainability of the resources of the fund
s the importance of protecting , conserving and restoring water and water - related ecosystems , including river basins , aquifers and lakes , and urges parties to further integrate water into adaptation efforts ; vi . loss and damage 44. notes with grave concern , according to information in the c
ointly usd 100 billion per year by 2020 in the context of meaningful mitigation action and transparency on implementation has not yet been met and urges developed country parties to meet the goal ; 15 58. emphasizes that accelerated financial support for developing countries from developed countrie
ilable at https : //www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg2/ . 17 see document fccc/cp/2022/8/add.1−fccc/pa/cma/2022/7/add.1 . fccc/pa/cma/2022/ 10/add.1 9 60. urges developed country parties to provide enhanced support , including through financial resources , technology transfer and capacity -building , to as
 the determination of the needs of developing country parties related to implementing the convention and the paris agreement18 and in this context urges developed country parties to provide resources for the second replenishment of the green climate fund while demonstrating progression from the pre
r first biennial transparency report , and national inventory report if submitted as a stand -alone report , at the latest by 31 december 2024 and urges parties to swiftly make the necessary preparations for ensuring timely submission thereof ; 73. recognizes the importance of th e provision of inc
port in accordance with the relevant provisions of the paris agreement , as well as in enhancing international cooperation on climate action ; 76. urges all stakeholders involved in the first global stocktake to focus on achieving the outcom e referred to in article 14 , paragraph 3 , of the paris 
loping countries in support of the functions set out in paragraph 9 of decision 19/cma.3 ; 5. also recalls decision 1/cma.3 , paragraph 70 , which urges developed country parties to provide funds for the o peration of the santiago network and for the provision of technical assistance as set out in 
eve the global goal on adaptation and the goals of the paris agreement ; 5. notes the outstanding pledged contributions to the adaptation fund and urges parties to fulfil their pledges as soon as possible ; 6. encourages continued and increased voluntary contributions of financial resources to the 
ns and national adaptation plans submitted to date , which enhance the understanding and implementati on of adaptation actions and priorities ; 9. urges parties to further integrate adaptation into local , national and regional planning ; 10. requests parties that have not yet done so to submit the
rovision of climate finance for adaptation remains insufficient to respond to worsening climate change impacts in developing country parties ; 15. urges developed country parties to urgently and significantly scale up their provision of climate finance , technology transfer and capacity -building f
ns made to the adaptation f und and the least developed countries fund , which represent significant progress compared with previous efforts ; 18. urges developed country parties to at least double their collective provision of climate finance for adaptation to developing country parties f rom 2019
/rev.1 and https : //unfccc.int/sites/default/files/resource/message_to_parties_and_observers_on_ndc_numbers.pdf . fccc/pa/cma/2021/10/add.1 5 28. urges parties that have not yet communicated new or updated nationally determined contributions to do so as soon as possible in advance of the fourth se
30 ambition , beginni ng at the fourth session of the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to the paris agreement ; 32. urges parties that have not yet done so to communicate , by the fourth session of the conference of the parties serving as the meeting of the parties to
rties will allow for higher ambition in their actions ; v. finance , technology transfer and capacity -building for mitigation and a daptation 40. urges developed country parties to provide enhanced support , including through financial resources , technology transfer and capacity -building , to as
pledges referred to in paragraph 44 above through their next bienni al communications under article 9 , paragraph 5 , of the paris agreement ; 46. urges developed country parties to fully deliver on the usd 100 billion goal urgently and through to 2025 and emphasizes the importance of transparency 
 the usd 100 billion goal urgently and through to 2025 and emphasizes the importance of transparency in the implementation of their p ledges ; 47. urges the operating entities of the financial mechanism , multilateral development banks and other financial institutions to further scale up investment
damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change in developing country parties that are particularly vulnerable to these effects ; 64. urges developed country parties , the operating entities of the financial mechanism , united nations entities and intergovernmental organizations and ot
go network to be determined in accordance with paragraph 10 of decision 19/cma.3 will administer the funds referred to in paragraph 67 above ; 70. urges developed country parties t o provide funds for the operation of the santiago network and for the provision of technical assistance as set out in 
rogramme under the framework for non- market approaches referred to in article 6 , paragraph 8 , of the paris agreement ( decision 4/cma.3 ) ; 79. urges parties to swiftly make the necessary preparations for ensuring timely reporting under the enhanced transparency framework in line with article 13
e weeks where parties and non -party stakeholders can strengthen their credible and durable response to climate change at the regional level ; 91. urges parties to swiftly begin implementing the glasgow work programme on action for climate empowerment , respecting , promoting and considering their 
respecting , promoting and considering their respective obligations on human rights as well as gender equality and empowerment of women ; 92. also urges parties and stakeholders to ensure meaningful youth participation and representation in multilateral , national and local decision -making process
 93. emphasizes the important role of indigenous peoples ’ and local communities ’ culture and knowledge in effective action on climate change and urges parties to actively involve indigenous peoples and local communities in designing and implementing climate action ; 94. expresses its recognition 
iennial communications in accordance with article 9 , paragraph 5 , of the paris agreement and as specified in the annex to decision 12/cma.1 ; 5. urges developed country parties to submit biennial communications in 2022 ; 6. welcome s the compilation and synthesis3 prepared by the secretariat of t
ogress to the conference of the parties serving as t he meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol at its twelfth session ( november 2016 ) ; 6. urges the developed country parties that responded to the fundraising target of the adaptation fund board but have not yet made financial contributions 
as emissions/removals are reported accurately both in terms of crf tables and extensible mar kup language format . fccc/kp/cmp/2015/8/add.1 33 13. urges annex i parties to submit the report to facilitate the calculation of the assigned amount referred to in decision 2/cmp.8 , paragraph 2 , as soon 
 expresses appreciat ion to parties that have made contributions to the core budget and the international transaction log5 in a timely manner ; 4. urges parties that have not made contributions to the core budget and the international transaction log6 in full for the current and/ or previous bienni
tributions received from parties to the trust fund for participation in the unfccc process and to the trust fund for supplementary activities ; 7. urges parties to contribute further to the trust fund for participation in the unfccc process , in order to ensure the widest possible participation in 
ed nations for arranging the audits of the accounts of th e convention and for the valuable observations and recommendations of the auditors ; 11. urges the executive secretary to implement the recommendations of the auditors , as appropriate . 8th plenary meeting 10 december 2015 7 fccc/sbi/2015/i
ogress to the conference of the parties serving as t he meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol at its twelfth session ( november 2016 ) ; 6. urges the developed country parties that responded to the fundraising target of the adaptation fund board but have not yet made financial contributions 
as emissions/removals are reported accurately both in terms of crf tables and extensible mar kup language format . fccc/kp/cmp/2015/8/add.1 33 13. urges annex i parties to submit the report to facilitate the calculation of the assigned amount referred to in decision 2/cmp.8 , paragraph 2 , as soon 
 expresses appreciat ion to parties that have made contributions to the core budget and the international transaction log5 in a timely manner ; 4. urges parties that have not made contributions to the core budget and the international transaction log6 in full for the current and/ or previous bienni
tributions received from parties to the trust fund for participation in the unfccc process and to the trust fund for supplementary activities ; 7. urges parties to contribute further to the trust fund for participation in the unfccc process , in order to ensure the widest possible participation in 
ed nations for arranging the audits of the accounts of th e convention and for the valuable observations and recommendations of the auditors ; 11. urges the executive secretary to implement the recommendations of the auditors , as appropriate . 8th plenary meeting 10 december 2015 7 fccc/sbi/2015/i
tanding contributions to the core budget for the current and previous bienniums , which has res ulted in difficulties with cash flow ; 4. strongly urges parties that have not made contributions in full to the core budget to do so without further delay ; 5. calls upon parties to make their contribut
c/sbi/2016/inf.15 and fccc/sbi/2016/inf.19 . 4 fccc/sbi/2016/13 . 5 fccc/sbi/2016/inf.19 . 6 fccc/sbi/2016/inf.15 . fccc/kp/cmp/2016/8/add.1 19 8. urges parties to further contribute to the trust fund for participation in the unfccc process , in order to ensure the widest possible participation in 
ted nations for arranging the audits of the accounts of the convention and for the valuable observations and recommendations of the auditors ; 14. urges the executive secretary to implement the recommendations of the auditors , as appropri ate ; iii . other financial matters 15. endorses decision 2
standing contributions to the core budget for the current and previous bienniums , which has resulted in difficulties with cash flow ; 4. strongly urges parties that have not made contributions in full to the core budget for the current and/or previous bienniums to do so without further delay ; 5. 
ributions to the trust fund for participation in the unfccc process and to th e trust fund for supplementary activities received from parties ; 7. urges parties to further contribute to the trust fund for participation in the unfccc process , in order to ensure the widest possible participation in 
so expresses its appreciation to the auditors for the valuable observations and recommendations and the presentation made thereon to parties ; 12. urges the executive secre tary to implement the recommendations of the auditors , as appropriate . 12th plenary meeting 18 november 2017 5 fccc/sbi/2017
he current and previous bienniums , which has resulted in difficulties with cash flow and the effective implementation of activities ; 4. strongly urges parties that have not made contributions in full to the core budget for the current and/or previous bienniums to do so without further delay ; 5. 
rust fund for supplementary activities received from parties , including those contributions that allow for greater flexibility in allocation ; 7. urges parties to f urther contribute to the trust fund for participation in the unfccc process in order to ensure the widest possible participation in t
e current and previous bienniums , which has resulted in difficulties with cash flow and the effective implementatio n of activities ; 4. strongly urges parties that have not made contributions in full to the core budget for the current and/or previous bienniums to do so without further delay ; 5. 
ust fund for supplementary activities received from parties , including those contributions that allow for greater flexibility in al location ; 7. urges parties to further contribute to the trust fund for participation in the unfccc process , i n order to ensure the widest possible participation in
 expresses i ts appreciation to the auditors for the valuable observations and recommendations and the presentation mad e thereon to parties ; 13. urges the executive secretary to implement the recommendations of the auditors , as appropriate , including those outstanding from the 2017 audit report
he doha amendment , on 31 december 2020 ; 3. notes that the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol ended on 31 december 2020 ; 4. strongly urges parties that have accepted the doha amendment to implement their pre-2020 commitments to the fullest extent as soon as possible . 10th plenary mee
he current and previous bienniums , which has resulted in difficulties with cash flow and the effective implementation of activities ; 4. strongly urges parties that have not made contributions in full to the core b udget for the current and/or previous bienniums to do so without further delay ; 5.
rust fund for supplementary activities received from parties , including those contributions that allow for greater flexibility in allocation ; 7. urges parties to further contribute to the trust fund for participation in the unfccc process in order to ensure the widest possible participation in th
expresses concern about the high number of recommendations from the unite d nations board of auditors not yet implemented by the secretariat ; 15. urges the executive secretary to implement the recommendations of the auditors , as appropriate , and to update parties on progress ; iii . other financ
e date of completion shall be the date of publication of the final inventory review report for the final year of the second commitment period ; 2. urges parties , expert review teams and the secretariat to expedite t he review process in order to meet that deadline ; 3. decides that the report upon
 relation to adaptation and adaptation finance in this critical decade ; 5. notes the outstanding pledged contributions to the adaptation fund and urges parties to fulfil their pledges as soon as possible ; 6. encourages continued and increased voluntary contributions of financial resources to the 
 fourth review period compared with the previous period ; 4 7. notes with concern the outstanding pledged contributions to the adaptation fund and urges parties that have not fulfilled their pledges to do so as soon as possible ; 8. stresses the importance of financial cont ributions to the adaptat
e current and previous bienniu ms , which has resulted in difficulties with cash flow and the effective implementation of activities ; 4. strongly urges parties that have not made contributions in full to the core budget for the current and/or previous bienniums to do so without further delay ; 5. 
ust fund for supplementary activities received from parties , including those contributions that allow f or greater flexibility in allocation ; 6. urges parties to further contribute to the trust fund for participation in the unfccc process in order to ensure the widest possible participation in th
with regard to the funding of employee benefits , including any relevant resolutions adopted by the united nations general assembly ; 18. strongly urges the secretariat to publish documents on budgetary matters in a timely manner ; iii . unfccc annual report 19. takes note of the information contai
. expresses concern about the high number of recommendations from the united nations board of auditors not yet implemented by the secretariat ; 5. urges the executive secretary to implement the recommendations of the auditors , as appropriate , and to update parties on progress ; ii . other financi
e current and previous bienniums , which has resulted in difficulties with cash flow and the effective implementation of activities ; 10. strongly urges parties that have not made contributions in full to the core budget for the current and/or previous bienniums to do so without further delay ; 11.
f.10 and add.1 , fccc/sbi/2022/inf.11 and fccc/sbi/2022/inf.16 . 3 fccc/sbi/2022/inf.11 . 4 fccc/sbi/2022/inf.16 . fccc/kp/cmp/2022/9/add.1 31 12. urges parties to further contri bute to the trust fund for participation in the unfccc process in order to ensure the widest possible participation in t
mmittee on finance shall serve the agreement in line with its functions and responsibilities established under the conference of the parties ; 64. urges the institutions serving the agreement to enhance the coordination and delivery of resources to support country -driven strategies through simplif
sistance for meeting the provisions stipulated in article 13 of the agreement ; ( c ) to assist in the improvement of transparency over time ; 86. urges and requests the global environment facility to make arra ngements to support the establishment and operation of the capacity -building initiative
under the kyoto protocol , including certified emission reductions that are valid for the second commitment period ; fccc/cp/2015/10/add.1 16 107. urges host and purchasing parties to report transparently on interna tionally transferred mitigation outcomes , including outcomes used to meet internat
lding suppor t by developed country parties in order to enhance the level of ambition of pre -2020 action by parties , and in this regard strongly urges developed country parties to scale up their level of financial support , with a concrete road map to achieve the goal o f jointly providing usd 10
nt actions , including actions referred to in this decision , and the implementation of the work programme referred to in paragraph 9 above ; 139. urges parties to make voluntary contributions for the timely implementatio n of this decision . fccc/cp/2015/10/add.1 21 annex paris agreement the parti
in paragraph 3 above ; 6. acknowledges with appreciation that the executive committee plans to sched ule at least three meetings3 during 2016 ; 7. urges the executive committee to explore modalities of work in order to fulfil its mandate in accordance with decisions 2/cp.19 and 2/cp.20 ; 8. also ur
es the executive committee to explore modalities of work in order to fulfil its mandate in accordance with decisions 2/cp.19 and 2/cp.20 ; 8. also urges parties to make available sufficient resources for the successful and timely implementation of the initial two -year workplan of the executive com
countries fun d and the adaptation fund , providing further clarity to and predictability of public climate finance flows from 2015 to 2020 ; 1 2. urges developed country parties to continue efforts to channel a substantial share of public climate funds to adaptation activiti es and to strive to ac
 ; supporting micro , small and medium -sized enterprises ; and mobilizing resources at scale in order to address adaptation and mitigation ; 4 8. urges parties that made pledges under the initial resource mobilization process of the green climate fund but have not yet confirmed them to the green c
 green climate fund to ap prove the accreditation of 20 national , regional , international and private entities to the green climate fund ; 5 16. urges the board of the green climate fund to streamline the accreditation modalities and to seek a balance of diversity in accredited entities ; 17. tak
initial risk management framework ; 19. also requests the board of the green climate fund to enhance transparency and stakeholder engagement ; 20. urges the board of the green climate fund to operationalize the independent evaluation unit , independent redress mechanism and independent integrity un
ndertaking collaborative research and development for enabling developing countr y parties to enhance their mitigation and adaptation action ; 23. urges the board of the green climate fund to operationalize results -based payments for activities referred to in decision 1/cp.16 , paragraph 70 , cons
rument of the green climate fund ,7 including by engaging with relevant bodies of the convention , such as the standing committee on finance ; 27. urges the board of the gree n climate fund to develop appropriate mechanisms to support the fund through appropriate expert and technical advice , inclu
d countries ; ( b ) enhancing longer -term institutional capacity to design and execute the activities referred to in paragraph 8 ( a ) above ; 9. urges the global environment facility to work with all its agenc ies and recipient countries to ensure that these countries can take full advantage of t
ational communications , bienni al reports and biennial update reports , on the progress made in enhancing capacity to address climate change ; 6. urges relevant bodies established under the convention to continue to undertake capacity -building activities in their work , as appropriate ; 7. stress
g staffing costs through post management ; 3. expresses appreciation to parties that made contributions to the core budget in a timely manner ; 4. urges parties that have not made contributions to the core budget in full for the current and/or previous bienni ums to do so without delay ; 5. calls u
tributions received from parties to the trust fund for participation in the unfccc process and to the trust fund for supplementary activities ; 7. urges parties to contribute fu rther to the trust fund for participation in the unfccc process in order to ensure the widest possible participation in t
ed nations for arranging the audits of the accounts of the convention and for the v aluable observations and recommendations of the auditors ; 11. urges the executive secretary to implement the recommendations of the auditors , as appropriate . 10th plenary meeting 10 december 2015 5 fccc/sbi/2015/
re not made under the approved budget , using voluntary contributions and to the extent possible , resources available under the core budget ; 16. urges parties to make voluntary contributions as necessary for the timely implementation of the decisions referred to in paragraph 15 above ; 17. takes 
oped country parties towards reaching the goal of jointly mobilizing usd 100 billion annually by 2020 , in accordance wit h decision 1/cp.16 , and urges developed country parties to continue to scale up mobilized climate finance towards this goal ; 4. also welcomes the progress made and requests pa
onments and policy frameworks to fa cilitate the mobilization and effective deployment of climate finance in accordance with decision 3/cp.19 ; 5. urges developed country parties to continue their efforts to channel a substantial share of public climate funds to adaptation activities and to stri ve
ference of the parties , including the initial strategic plan , and the scaling up of investments in ambitious country -driven climate action ; 4. urges the board to finalize in a timely manner its work related to the guidance of the conference of the parties on financing for forests as mandated by
rk related to the guidance of the conference of the parties on financing for forests as mandated by decision 7/cp.21 , paragraphs 23 –25 ; 5. also urges parties that made pledges under the ini tial resource mobilization process of the green climate fund but have not yet confirmed them through fully
 the recommendations by the technology executive committee following the evaluation of the poznan strategic programme on technology transfer ; 11. urges the global environment facility and recipient countries to continu e exploring with the climate technology centre and network ways to support clim
es parties to foster the participation of r elevant stakeholders in all mitigation and adaptation activities implemented under the convention ; 4. urges parties , intergovernmental organizations , non -governmental organizations , academia , research institutions , the private sector , state and lo
eed to improve the representation of women in all of the bodies established under the convention , the kyoto protocol and the paris agreement ; 4. urges parties to enhance their efforts in advancing the implementation of decisions 36/cp.7 , 1/cp.16 , 23/cp.18 and 18/cp.20 ; 1 united nations general
tstanding contributions to the core budget for the c urrent and previous bienniums which has resulted in difficulties with cash flow ; 4. strongly urges parties that have not made contributions in full to the core budget for the current and/or previous bienniums to do so without further delay ; 5. 
tions to the tr ust fund for participation in the unfccc process and to the trust fund for supplementary activities received from the parties ; 8. urges parties to further contribute to the trust fund for participation in the unfccc process , in order to ensure the widest poss ible participation in
 united nations for arranging the audits of the accounts of the convention and for valuable observations and recommendations of the auditors ; 14. urges the executive secretary to implement the recommendations of the auditors , as appropriate ; iii . other financial matters 15. takes note of the in
 that have accepted the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol ; 18. underscores the urgen t need for the entry into force of the doha amendment and urges parties to the kyoto protocol that have yet to ratify the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to deposit their instruments of acceptance with the
 stocktake on pre -2020 implementation and ambition , and reiterates its decision5 to convene another stocktake at its twenty -fifth session ; 20. urges developed country parties to continue to scale up mobilized climate finance , recalling the commitment o f developed country parties in the contex
 mobilizing jointly usd 100 billion per year by 2020 to add ress the needs of developing country parties in accordance with decision 1/cp.16 , and urges developed country parties to continue to scale up mobilized climate finance towards achieving this goal ; 4. urges developed country parties to co
nce with decision 1/cp.16 , and urges developed country parties to continue to scale up mobilized climate finance towards achieving this goal ; 4. urges developed country parties to continue their efforts t o channel a substantial share of public climate funds to adaptation activities and to strive
rties on their strategies and approaches for scaling up climate finance from 2018 to 2020 in accordance with decision 3/cp.19 , paragraph 10,2 and urges those developed country parties that have not yet done so to submit this information ; 6. requests the secretariat , in line with decision 5/cp.20
018/10/add.1 30 3. further welcomes the report on the implementation of the 2018 workplan and the approval of the 2019 workplan of the board , and urges the board to address remaining policy gaps , including on , as specified in the fund ’ s governing instrument and its rules of procedure : ( a ) p
ts ; 6 ( e ) the requests for proposals to support climate technology incubators and accelerators , in accordance with board decision b.18/03 ; 4. urges the board to continu e its consideration of procedures for adopting decisions in the event that all efforts at reaching consensus have been exhaus
 tion to the climate change focal area , including the system for transparent allocation of resources , compared with the sixth replenishment ; 4. urges all parties that have not made pledges for the seventh replenishment of the global environment facility to do so as soon as possible ; 5. acknowle
able development goals and possible co -benefits betw een mitigation and adaptation , and by mainstreaming adaptation in development planning ; 7. urges parties and non -party stakeholders to mainstream gender considerations in all stages of their adaptation planning processes , including national 
he current and previous bienniums , which has resulted in difficulties with cash flow and the effective implementation of activities ; 4. strongly urges parties that have not made contributions in full to the core budget for the current and/or previous bienniums to do so without further delay ; 5. 
ust fund for supple mentary activities received from parties , including those contributions that allow for greater flexibility in allocation ; 7. urges parties to further contribute to the trust fund for participation in the unfccc process in order to ensure the widest possible p articipation in t
 also contributed to enabling developing countries to advance their work in the process to formulat e and implement national adaptation plans ; 7. urges developed country parties and invites other parties that provide resources on a voluntary basis , united nations organizations , specialized agenc
 of the related projects , and the disbursement of funds by its implementing/executing agencies to the recipi ent countries of those projects ; 5. urges the global environment facility to continue to report to the conf erence of the parties any change or update to the eligibility criteria for acces
tivities under each division ; 14. decides to maintain the level of the working capital reserve at 8.3 per cent of the estimated expenditure ; 15. urges parties that have not made contribution s in full to the core budget for the current and/or previous bienniums to do so without further delay ; 16
e current and previous bienniums , which has resulted in difficulties wit h cash flow and the effective implementation of activities ; 4. strongly urges parties that have not made contributions in full to the core budget for the current and/or previous bienniums to do so without further delay ; 5. 
ust fund for supplementary activities received from parties , including those contributio ns that allow for greater flexibility in allocation ; 7. urges parties to further contribute to the trust fund for participation in the unfccc process , in order to ensure the widest possible participation in 
so expresses its appreciation to the auditors for the valuable observations and recommendations and the presentation made thereon to parties ; 13. urges the executive secretary to implement the recommendations of the auditors , as appropriate , including those outstanding from the 2017 audit report
line with findings from the contribution of working group ii to the sixth assessment report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change ; 21. urges parties to adopt a transformational approach to enhancing adaptive capacity , strengthening resilience and reducing vulnerability to climate chang
dopt a transformational approach to enhancing adaptive capacity , strengthening resilience and reducing vulnerability to climate change ; 22. also urges developed country parties to urgently and significantly scale up their provision of climate fina nce , technology transfer and capacity- building 
s the importance of protecting , conserving and restoring water and water - related ecosystems , including river basins , aquifers and lakes , and urges parties to further integrate water into adaptation efforts ; vi . loss and da mage 25. notes with grave concern , according to information in the 
what would be expected in the light of the investment opportunities identified and the cost of failure to meet climate stabilization targets ; 39. urges developed country parties to provide enhanced support , including through financial resources , technology transfer and capacity -building , to as
the determination of the needs of developing country parties related to implementing the convention and the paris agreement 14 and in this context urges developed country parties to provide resources for the second replenishment of the green climate fund while demonstrating progression from the pre
the vulnerability of farmers and other vulnerable groups , especially small -scale farmers , women and youth , in relation to climate change ; 10. urges parties , relevant organizations and other groups to increase their efforts in relation to promoting sustainable agriculture , including by streng
ing countries in support of the functions set out in paragraph 9 of decision 19/cma.3 ; “ 5 . also recalls decision 1/cma.3 , paragraph 70 , which urges developed country parties to provide funds for the operation of the santiago network and for the provision of technical assistance as set out in p
ces , and welcomes the ongoing efforts of developed country parties towards achieving the goal of mobilizing jointly usd 100 billion per year ; 4. urges developed country parties to fully deliver on the usd 100 billion per year goal urgently a nd through 2025 , noting the significant role of public
billion and with a climate -related finance target of no less than 80 per cent of all funding commitments in the eighth replenishment period ) and urges developed country parties to fulfil their pledges on time ; 6. welcomes contributions made by the governments of belgium , germany , norway , the 
ce of the green climate fund ’ s role in supporting the implementation of actions associated with developing countries ’ adaptation priorities and urges the board to improve technical and capacity -building support for the development of projects and programmes based on national adaptation plans in
e with the updated accreditation framework and accreditation strategy , focusing on countries and regions with no or few accredited entities ; 13. urges the board to maintain the balance it has approved between finance for adaptation and that for miti gation over time and to provide ambitious level
gthening the gender programming of green climate fund activities through suppor ting the implementation of the policies and projects therein ; 20. urges the board to continue incorporating indigenous peoples ’ and local communities ’ interests , perspectives , knowledge and climate priorities into 
change fund , to support developing country parties in implementing national adaptation plans and other national adaptation planning processes and urges developed country parties to increase their voluntary contributions to the least developed countries fund and the special climate change fund ; 9.
ties in a country -driven manner , including technology and capacity -building needs , and for translating climate finance needs into action ; 16. urges the further enhancement of the support provided by the global environment facility for activities related to technology training , funding for tec
 implementation of the gender action plan , w hich has negatively impacted the implementation of effective gender -responsive climate action , and urges parties to accelerate their efforts to advance implementation of the enhanced lima work programme on gender and its gender action plan ; 3. notes 
he current and previous bienniums , which has resulted in difficulties with cash flow and the effective implementation of activities ; 4. strongly urges parties that have not made contributions in full to the core budget for the current and/or previous bienniums to do so without further delay ; 5. 
rust fund for supplementary activities received from parties , including those contributions that allow for greater flexibility in allocation ; 6. urges parties to further contribute to th e trust fund for participation in the unfccc process in order to ensure the widest possible participation in t
with regard to the funding of employee benefits , including any relevant resolutions adopted by the united nations general assembly ; 18. strongly urges the secretariat to publish documents on budgetary m atters in a timely manner ; iii . unfccc annual report 19. takes note of the information conta
. expresses concern about the high number of recommendations from the united nations board of auditors not yet implemented by the secretariat ; 5. urges the executive secretary to implement the recommendations of the auditors , as appropriate , and to update parties on progress ; ii . other financi
e current and previous bienniums , which has resulted in difficulties with cash flow and the effective implementation of activities ; 10. strongly urges parties that have not made contributions in full to the core budget for the current and/or previous bienniums to do so without further delay ; 11.
st fund for supplement ary activities received from parties , including those contributions that allow for greater flexibility in allocation ; 12. urges parties to further contribute to the trust fund for participation in the unfccc process in order to ensure the widest possible parti cipation in t
al of mobilizing jointly usd 100 billion per year by 2020 to address the needs of developing countries , in accordance with decision 1/cp.16 , and urges developed country parties to continue to scale up mobilized climate finan ce towards this goal ; 3. urges developed country parties to continue th
n accordance with decision 1/cp.16 , and urges developed country parties to continue to scale up mobilized climate finan ce towards this goal ; 3. urges developed country parties to continue their efforts to channel a substantial share of public climate funds to adaptation activities and to strive 
ies on updated strategies and approaches for scaling up climate finance from 2016 to 2020 in accordance with decision 3/cp.19 , paragraph 10 , and urges those developed country parties that have not yet done so to submit this information ; 5. takes note of the compilation and synthesis of the bienn
mber of entities ; 5. welcomes the board ’ s decision to trigger the review of the accreditation framework and its fit -for-purpose approach,5 and urges the board to swiftly adopt and implement the 1 fccc/cp/2017/5 and add.1 . 2 green climate fund board decision b.15/04 . 3 green climate fund board
ant provisions in the governing instrument of the green climate fund ; 9. welcomes the launch of the simplified approval proc ess pilot scheme and urges its implementation in line with green climate fund board decision b.18/06 ; 10. encourages the board to continue improving the process to review a
onsideration of the board ’ s request as reflected in green climate fund board decision b.08/24 and the procedure agreed in decision 7/cp.20 ; 16. urges the board to ensure the continuation of trustee services and to conclude its deliberations on the selection of a trustee , including the terms of 
ses , as outlined in decision 1/cp.21 , including to better integrate them with the marrakech partnership for global cli mate action ; 2. strongly urges the chairs of the subsidiary bodies , the high -level champions,2 the adaptation committee , the technology executive committee and the climate te
ng mitigation and adaptation that are actionable in the short term , including those with sustainable development co -benefits ; 3. also s trongly urges the high -level champions to identify , by 12 january 2018 , in consu ltation with the technology executive committee and the climate technology c
nd adaptation initiatives , and to provide their reports thereon to the secretariat as input to the technical examination processes ; 10. strongly urges the chairs of the subsidiary bodies , the high -level champions , the adaptation committee , the technology executive committee and the climate te
standing contributions to the core budget for the current and previous bienniums , which has resulted in difficulties with cash flow ; 4. strongly urges parties that have not made contributions in full to the core budget for the current and/or previous bienniums to do so without further delay ; 5. 
tributions to the trust fund for participation in the unfccc process and to the trust fund for supplementary activities received from parties ; 7. urges parties to further contribute to the trust fund for participation in the unfccc process , in order to ensure the widest possible participa tion in
so expresses its appreciation to the auditors for the valuable observations and recommendations and the presentation made thereon to parties ; 12. urges the executive secretary to implement the recommendations of the auditors , as appropriate . 12th plenary meeting 17 november 201 7 5 fccc/sbi /201
mes the national adaptation plans submitted to date , which enhance the understanding and implementation of adaptation actions and priorities ; 8. urges parties to further integrate adaptation into local , national and regional planning ; 9. invites the intergovernmental panel on climate change to 
rovision of climate finance for adaptation remains insufficient to respond to worsening climate change impacts in developing country parties ; 11. urges developed country parties to urgently and significantly scale up their provision of climate finance , technology transfer and capacity -building f
 , while ensuring social and environmental safeguards ; v. finance , technology transfer and capacity -building for mitigation and a daptation 22. urges developed country parties to provide enhanced support , including through financial resources , technology transfer and capacity -building , to as
pe d country parties and the climate finance delivery plan : meeting the us $ 100 billion goal4 and the collective actions contained therein ; 27. urges developed country parties to fully deliver on the usd 100 billion goal urgently and through to 2025 and emphasize s the importance of transparency
 the usd 100 billion goal urgently and through to 2025 and emphasize s the importance of transparency in the implementation of their pledges ; 28. urges the operating entities of the financial mechanism , multilateral development banks and other financial institutions to further scale up investment
damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change in developing country parties that are particularly vulnerable to these effects ; 40. urges developed country parties , the operating entities of the financial mechanism , united nations entities and intergovernmental organizations and ot
arties in relation to action and support in the pre -2020 period , as well as of the wor k of the constituted bodies in that period ; 47. strongly urges all parties that have not yet done so to meet any outstanding pledges under the convention as soon as possible ; 48. welcomes the action taken to 
d acti on and to prepare an informal summary report thereon and make it available to the conference of the parties at its subsequent session ; 62. urges parties to swiftly begin implementing the glasgow work programme on action for climate empowerment , respecting , promoting and considering their 
eld in glasgow in october 2021 , and the “ youth4climate2021 : driving ambition ” event hosted by italy in milan , italy , in september 2021 ; 64. urges parties and stakeholders to ensure meaningful youth participation and representati on in multilateral , national and local decision -making proces
 66. emphasizes the important role of indigenous peoples ’ and local communities ’ culture and knowledge in effective action on climate change and urges parties to actively involve indigenous peoples and local communities in designing and implementing climate action and to engage with the second th
at a substantial component of climate finance from developed country parties to developing country parties is provided th rough public finance and urges developed country parties to continue to scale up climate finance towards achieving th e goal to mobilize jointly usd 100 billion per year by 2020
sing matters related to the private sector facility and strategy , as well as outstanding matters from the rules of procedure of the board , 4 and urges the board to prioritize closing the policy gaps as a matter of urgency and to explore diversifying its selection of financial instruments for addr
e fund and its officials and invites the board to continue efforts to ensure that the fund enjoys privileges and immunities as are necessary ; 13. urges the board to finalize in a timel y manner its work related to the guidance and arrangements of the conference of the parties on financing for fore
ncreasing the funding ceiling per project to provide adequate financial and technical support to communities and civil society organizations ; 16. urges the global environment facility to enhance its support for projects that engage with stakeholders at the local level , a nd to continue to provide
 . c. fccc/cp/2021/12/add.2 41 13. decides to maintain the level of the working capital reserve at 8.3 per cent of the estimated expenditure ; 14. urges parties that have not made contributions in full to the core budget for the current and/or previous bienniums to do so without further delay ; 15.
he current and previous bienniums , which has resulted in difficulties with cash flow and the effective implementation of activities ; 4. strongly urges parties that have not made contributions in full to the core budget for the current and/or previous bienniums to do so without further delay ; 5. 
rust fund for supplementary activities received from parties , including those contributions that allow for greater flexibility in allocation ; 7. urges parties to f urther contribute to the trust fund for participation in the unfccc process in order to ensure the widest possible participation in t
expresses concern about the high number of recommendations from the u nited nations board of auditors not yet implemented by the secretariat ; 15. urges the executive secretary to implement the recommendations of the auditors , as appropriate , and to update parties on progress ; iii . other financ
