 
 
GE.17 -01430(E)  

Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting  
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
  Report of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  on the first 
part of its first session , held in Marrakech   
from 15 to 18 November  2016 
 Addendum  
Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
Contents  
  Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties  serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
Decision   Page 
  1/CMA.1  Matters relating to the implementation of the Paris Agreement  ................................   2 
  2/CMA.1  Rules of procedure of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of  
the Parties to the Paris Agreement  ................................ ................................ .............   4 
Resolution  
  1/CMA.1 Expression of gratitude to the Go vernment of the Kingdom of Morocco and  
the people of Marrakech  ................................ ................................ ............................   5 
    United Nations  FCCC /PA/CMA/2016/ 3/Add.1  
 
 
 
  
Distr.: General  
31 January 2017  
 
Original: English  
FCCC/PA/CMA/2016/ 3/Add.1  
2  Decision 1/C MA.1 
  Matters relating to the implementation of the Paris 
Agreement  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement ,  
Recalling the Paris Agreement, adopted under the Convention,  
Also recalling  decision 1/CP.21,  
Underscoring the importance of inclusiveness, transparency and openness in the 
completion of the work programme under the Paris Agreement,   
Stressing  the urgency for completion of the work programme under the Paris 
Agreement resulting from the relevant requests contained in section III of decision 1/CP.21 
in order to accelerate its implementation,  
Recognizing  the need for a meaningful and successful outcome of the work related 
to the implementation of the Paris Agreement,  
I. Entry into force and signature of the Paris Agreement  
1. Welcomes  the entry into force of the Paris Agreement on 4 November 2016;  
2. Also welcomes the signature of the Paris Agreement by almost all Parties to the 
Convention;  
3. Congratulates Parties to the Convention that have ratified, accepted or approved the 
Paris Agreement and invites  those that have not done so to deposit their instruments of 
ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, where appropriate, with the Depositary  as 
soon a s possible;  
II. Completion of the work programme under the Paris 
Agreement  
4. Expresses its appreciation to the Conference of the Parties for overseeing the 
implementation of the work programme under the Paris Agreement in accordance with the 
arrangements contai ned in decision 1/CP.21;  
5. Invites  the Conference of the Parties to continue to oversee the implementation of 
the work programme under the Paris Agreement in accordance with the arrangements 
contained in decision 1/CP.21, and to accelerate work and forward t he outcomes at the 
latest to the third part of the first session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement to be convened in conjunction with the 
twenty -fourth session of the Conference of the Parties ( December 2018) for its 
consideration and adoption;  
6. Also invites  the Conference of the Parties to continue to oversee the work on further 
guidance in relation to the adaptation communication, including, inter alia, as a component 
of nationally determined con tributions, referred to in Article 7, paragraphs 10 and 11, of the 
Paris Agreement;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2016/ 3/Add.1  
 3 7. Further  invites  the Conference of the Parties to continue to oversee the work on the 
development of modalities and procedures for the operation and use of a public registry  
referred to in Article 7, paragraph 12, of the Paris Agreement;  
8. Invites the Conference of the Parties to request the Subsidiary Body for Scientific 
and Technological Advice, the Subsidiary Body for Implementation, the Ad Hoc Working 
Group on the Paris Agr eement and the constituted bodies under the Convention to 
accelerate their work on the work programme resulting from the relevant requests contained 
in section III of decision 1/CP.21, and to forward the outcomes to the Conference of the 
Parties at its twe nty-fourth session at the latest;  
9. Also invites the Conference of the Parties  to request the Ad Hoc Working Group on 
the Paris Agreement to continue its consideration of possible additional matters relating to 
the implementation of the Paris Agreement and the convening of the first session of the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement;  
10. Decides  to convene, at the second part of its first session, a joint meeting with the 
Conference of the Parties, at its twenty -third session ( November 2017), to review progress 
on the implementation of the work programme under the Paris Agreement;  
III. Adaptation Fund  
11. Decides that the Adaptation Fund should serve the Paris Agreement, following and 
consistent with decisions to be take n at the third part of the first session of the Conference 
of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement , to be convened 
in conjunction  with the twenty -fourth session of the Conference of the Parties , and by the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol that 
address the governance and institutional arrangements, safeguards and operating modalities 
of the Adaptation Fund . 
8th plenary meeting  
18 November  2016FCCC/PA/CMA/2016/ 3/Add.1  
4  Decision 2/CMA.1  
  Rules of procedure of the Conference of the Parties serving 
as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement   
The Conference of the Parties  serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement ,  
 Recalling Articles 16 and 18 of the Paris Agreement,  
 Decides that, when applying the draft rules of procedure of the Conference of the 
Parties,1 pursuant to Article 16, paragraph 5, of the Paris Agreement, it should be 
understood that:  
(a) With respect to draft rules 22 –26, the term of office of any replacement 
officer elected by and from among Parties to the Paris Agreement in accordance with 
Article 16,  paragraph 3, and Article 18, paragraph 3, of the Paris Agreement would expire 
at the same time as that of the officer being replaced;  
(b) With respect to draft rules 17 –21:  
(i) The credentials of representatives of Parties to the Paris Agreement would 
apply to their representatives participating in sessions of the Conference of the 
Parties and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Paris Agreement;  
(ii) A single report on credentials would be submitted for approval, following 
established procedures, by the Bureau of the Conference of the Parties to the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement;  
(c) With respect to draft rules 6 and 7:  
(i) Organizations admitted as observers to previous session s of the Conference 
of the Parties would be admitted to the first session of the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement;  
(ii) A single process would be used for the admission of observer organizations 
to sessions  of the Conference of the Parties and the Conference of the Parties serving 
as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement, with decisions on the 
admission of observer organizations being taken by the Conference of the Parties.  
8th plenary meeting  
18 November 2016 
                                                           
 1 See document FCCC/CP/1996/2.   FCCC/PA/CMA/2016/ 3/Add.1  
 5 Resolution 1 /CMA.1 
  Expression of gratitude to the Government of the Kingdom of 
Morocco and the people of Marrakech  
Draft resolution submitted by Fiji 
The Conference of the Parties , the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  and the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agree ment , 
Having met  in Marrakech from 7 to 18 November 2016 at the invitation of the 
Government of the Kingdom of Morocco,  
1. Express  their profound gratitude  to the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco  for 
having made it possible for the twenty -second  session of the Conference of the Parties , the 
twelfth  session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Kyoto Protocol and the first session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement to be held in Marrakech;  
2. Request  the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco  to convey to the city and 
people of Marrakech  the gratitude of the Conference of the Parties , the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to t he Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement for the hospitality 
and warmth extended to the participants.  
 
8th plenary meeting  
18 November 2016 
     
GE.18-01366 (E) 

Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting  
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
  Report of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement on the  
second part of its first session, held in Bonn from  
6 to 1 8 November 2017  
Part one: Proceedings  
Contents  
 Paragraphs  Page 
 I. Opening of the session  
  (Agenda item 1)  ................................ ................................ ................................ .......  1–2 3 
 II. Organizational matters  
  (Agenda item 2)  ................................ ................................ ................................ .......  3–17 3 
  A. Adoption of the agenda  ................................ ................................ ...................   3 3 
  B. Application of the rules of procedure of the Conference of the Parties  ..........   4 3 
  C. Election of additional officers  ................................ ................................ .........   5–6 3 
  D. Organi zation of work  ................................ ................................ ......................   7–10 4 
  E. Status of ratification of the Paris Agreement  ................................ ..................   11–12 4 
  F. Approval of the report on credentials  ................................ .............................   13–14 4 
  G. Attendance  ................................ ................................ ................................ ......  15–16 4 
  H. Documentation  ................................ ................................ ................................   17 5 
 III. Matters relating to the implementation of the Paris Agreement  
  (Agenda item 3)  ................................ ................................ ................................ .......   5 
 IV. High -level segment  
  (Agenda item 4)  ................................ ................................ ................................ .......   5 
 V. Other matters  
  (Agenda item 5)  ................................ ................................ ................................ .......   5 
 VI. Conclusion of the session  
  (Agenda item 6)  ................................ ................................ ................................ .......  18–21 5 
  A. Adoption of the report of the Conference of the Parties serving as the  
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  ................................ ................   19 5 
  B. Closure of the session  ................................ ................................ .....................   20–21 5  United Nations  FCCC /PA/CMA/2017/ 2 
 
 
 
  
Distr.: General  
8 February  2018 
 
Original: English  
FCCC/PA/CMA/2017/2  
2   
Annex  
Parties to the Paris Agreement, Parties to the Convention that are observers to the Paris Agreement,  
and observer States attending the second part of the first session of the Conference of the Parties  
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  ................................ ...........................   6 
Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parti es to the Paris Agreement at the second part of its 
first session  
Resolution adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
Resolution  
2/CMA.1  Expression of gratitude to the Government of  the Federal R epublic of  Germany  
and the people of the city of Bonn  ................................ ................................ .............   8 FCCC/PA/CMA/2017/2  
 3 I. Opening of the session  
(Agenda item 1)  
1. The first session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Paris Agreement (CMA), convened pursuant to Article 16, paragraph 6, of the 
Paris Agreement, was resumed  for its second part  at the United Nation s Climate Chang e 
Conference  in Bonn, Germany , on 6 November 2017 by Mr. Frank  Bainimarama, President 
of CMA 1. 2.1 
2. The resumption was immediately followed by  a joint plenary meeting of the 
Conference of the Parties (COP), the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeti ng of 
the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol (CMP) and the CMA to hear opening statements.2 
II. Organizational matters  
(Agenda item 2)  
A. Adoption of the agenda  
(Agenda sub -item 2(a))  
3. The CMA adopted  the agenda for its first session at its 5th meeting , on 16 November 
2016 .3 The adopted agenda and annotations are contained in document 
FCCC/PA/CMA/2017/1.  
B. Application of the rules of procedure of the Conference of the Parties  
(Agenda sub -item 2(b))  
4. At the 8th meeting, on 6 November, the President recalled that , in accordance with 
Article 16, paragraph 5, of the Paris Agreement and decision 2/CMA.1, the draft rules of 
procedure of the COP shall be applied mutatis mutandis under the Paris Agreement . 
C. Election of additional officers  
(Agenda sub -item 2(c))  
5. The CMA co nsidered this sub -item at its 8th meeting  and at its 18th meeting , on 18 
November. At the 18th meeting, the President informed the CMA that one nominee for the 
Bureau from the Asia -Pacific States  represents a Party to the Convention that is not yet a 
Party  to the Paris Agreement and that the CMA will therefore elect an additional member of 
the Bureau representing a Party to the Paris Agreement . 
6. On a proposal by the President, the CMA urged the Asia -Pacific States  to submit the 
outstanding nomination to the Executive Secretary as soon as possible and by 31 January 
2018 at the latest. Once the nomination is received by the Executive Secretary, the member 
will be deemed to have been elected at CMA 1.2 in accordance with established practice.4 
  
                                                           
 1 CMA 1.2 was held in conjunction with the twenty -third session of the Conference of the Parties 
(COP) and the thirteenth session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties 
to the Kyoto Protocol (CMP). The proceedings of the COP  and the CMP are contained in separate 
reports (FCCC/CP/2017/11 and FCCC/KP/CMP/2017/7, respectively). References to statements and 
an address of welcome made at the opening of the conference are contained in the report of the COP.  
 2 See document FCCC/CP /2017/ 11, paragraph 38.  
 3 FCCC/PA/CMA/2016/3, paragraph 4.  
 4 See document FCCC/CP/2017/11 , paragraph 17, for a list of the members of the Bureau of COP  23, 
CMP 13 and CMA 1.2.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2017/2  
4  D. Organization of work  
(Agenda sub -item 2(d))  
7. At the 8th meeting, the President referred the CMA to the annotations5 to the agenda  
and proposed that the CMA follow the organization of work that was agreed by the COP.6 
8. The CMA agreed to proceed on the basis of the proposal m ade by the President.  
9. The President convened a joint 11th meeting of the COP and 17th meeting of the 
CMA on 17 November to review progress in the implementation of the work programme 
under the Paris Agreement .7 
10. In addition , the President convened an informal stocktaking plenary on 11 
November to review progress made during the first week of the conference and to hear 
views of Parties on how to advance work in the second week in order to reach a successful 
outcome.8  
E. Status of ratification of the Paris Agreement  
(Agenda sub -item 2(e))  
11. At the 8th meeting, the President informed the CMA that, as at 6 November 2017, 
168 Parties to the Convention had ratified the Paris Agreement.  
12. On a proposal by the President, the CMA took note of this information and invited 
Parties to the Convention that have not yet done so to expedite their ratification.  
F. Approval of the report on credentials  
(Agenda sub -item 2(f))  
13. At the 18th meeting, the Pre sident referred to the report on credentials,9 which 
indicates that the Bureau, in accordance with rule 20 of the draft rules of procedure being 
applied, examined and approved the credentials of the representatives of Parties.  
14. At the same meeting, on the b asis of the report of the Bureau and additional 
credentials provided , the CMA accepted the credentials of Parties attending the session.10  
G. Attendance  
15. The session in Bonn was attended by representatives of 168 Parties to the Paris 
Agreement, representatives of 26 Parties to the Convention that are observers to the Paris 
Agreement  and representatives of one observer State , as listed in the annex.11 
16. According to decision 2/CMA.1, the admission of organizations as observers as 
decided by the COP a lso applies to the CMA. Observer organizations newly admitted to the 
sessions of the COP , the CMP  and the CMA are listed in document FCCC/CP/2017/ 2.12 
H. Documentation  
17. The documents that were before CMA 1.2 are available on the UNFCCC website.13 
                                                           
 5 FCCC/PA/CMA/2017/1.  
 6 FCCC/CP/2017/11, paragraphs 19 and 25 –30. 
 7 See https://unfccc.cloud.streamworld.de/webcast/joint -11th-meeting -of-the-cop-and-17th-meeting -of-
. A summary can be found in document FCCC/CP/2017/11,  paragraph 66.  
 8 See https://unfccc.cloud.streamworld.de/webcast/informal -stocktaking -plenary -by-the-president . 
 9 FCCC/CP/2017/10 –FCCC/KP/CMP/2017/7 –FCCC/PA/CMA/2017/2.  
 10 For a list of additional credentials presented after the issuance of the credentials report, see document 
FCCC/CP/2017/11, paragraph 46.  
 11 For the attendance of representatives of the United Nations system, intergovernmental organizations 
and non -governmental organizations, see document FCCC/CP/2017/11, paragraph 48.  
 12 For the complete proceedings related to the COP agenda sub -item on the ad mission of organizations 
as observers, see document FCCC/CP/2017/11, paragraph 18.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2017/2  
 5 III. Matters relatin g to the implementation of the Paris 
Agreement  
(Agenda item 3 not taken up ) 
IV. High -level segment  
(Agenda item 4 )14 
V. Other matters  
(Agenda item 5  not taken up ) 
VI. Conclusion of the session  
(Agenda item 6)  
18. At the joint 15th meeting of the COP, 14th meeting of the CMP and 19th meeting of 
the CMA, on 18 November, representatives of groups of Parties and observer organizations 
made closing statements.15 
A. Adoption of the report of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
(Agenda sub -item 6(a))  
19. At its 20th meeting, on 18  November, the CMA considered the draft report on the 
second part of its first session  and, on a proposal by the President, authorized the 
Rapporteur to complete the report under the guidance  of the President and with the 
assistance of the secretariat.  
B. Closure of the session  
(Agenda sub -item 6(b))  
20. At its 20th meeting, on a proposal by  the President, the CMA adopted resolution 
2/CMA.1, entitled “Expression of gratitude to the Government of the Federal Republic of 
Germany and the people of the city of Bonn”.  
21. At the same meeting, the President noted that the CMA had completed its work for 
the second part of its first session  and would resume  the session for its third part in 
conjunction with COP 2 4 and CMP 14 ( December  2018).  
                                                                                                                                                                                                 
 
 13 http://unfccc.int/meetings/bonn_nov_2017/session/10378/php/view/documents.ph p 
and http://unfccc.int/meetings/bonn_nov_2017/in -session/items/10495.php . 
 14 See document FCCC/CP/2017/11, paragraphs 154 –159.  
 15 See document FCCC/CP/2017/11 , paragraphs  163–165.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2017/2  
6  Annex  
 Parties to the Paris Agreement, Parties to the Convention 
that are observers to the Paris Agreement, and observer 
State s attending the second part of the first session of the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Paris Agreement  
[English only]  
A. Parties to the Paris Agreement  
Afghanistan  
Albania  
Algeria  
Andorra  
Antigua and Barbuda  
Argentina  
Armenia  
Australia  
Austria  
Azerbaijan  
Bahamas  
Bahrain  
Bangladesh  
Barbados  
Belarus  
Belgium  
Belize  
Benin  
Bhutan  
Bolivia (Plurinational State of)  
Bosnia and Herzegovina  
Botswana  
Brazil  
Brunei Darussalam  
Bulgaria  
Burkina Faso  
Cabo Verde  
Cambodia  
Cameroon  
Canada  
Central African Republic  
Chad  
Chile  
China  
Comoros  
Congo  
 
 Cook Islands  
Costa Rica  
Côte d’Ivoire  
Croatia  
Cuba  
Cyprus 
Czechia  
Democratic People’s  
Republic of Korea  
Denmark  
Djibouti  
Dominica  
Dominican Republic  
Ecuador  
Egypt  
El Salvador  
Estonia  
Ethiopia  
European Union  
Fiji 
Finland  
France  
Gabon  
Gambia  
Georgia  
Germany  
Ghana  
Greece  
Grenada  
Guatemala  
Guinea  
Guyana  
Haiti  
Honduras  
Hungary  
Iceland  
 
 India  
Indonesia  
Ireland  
Israel  
Italy 
Jamaica  
Japan  
Jordan  
Kazakhstan  
Kenya  
Kiribati  
Lao People’s Democratic 
Republic  
Latvia  
Lesotho  
Liechtenstein  
Lithuania  
Luxembourg  
Madagascar  
Malawi  
Malaysia  
Maldives  
Mali  
Malta  
Marshall Islands  
Mauritania  
Mauritius  
Mexico  
Micronesia (Federated 
States of)  
Monaco  
Mongolia  
Morocco  
Myanmar  
Namibia  
Nauru  
 
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2017/2  
 7 Nepal  
Netherlands  
New Zealand  
Niger  
Nigeria  
Niue  
Norway  
Pakistan  
Palau  
Panama  
Papua New Guinea  
Paraguay  
Peru 
Philippines  
Poland  
Portugal  
Qatar  
Republic of Korea  
Republic of Moldova  
Romania  
Rwanda  
Saint Kitts and Nevis  Saint Lucia  
Saint Vincent and the 
Grenadines  
Samoa  
Sao Tome and Principe  
Saudi Arabia  
Senegal  
Serbia  
Seychelles  
Sierra Leone  
Singapore  
Slovakia  
Slovenia  
Solomon Islands  
Somalia  
South Africa  
Spain  
Sri Lanka  
State of Palestine  
Sudan  
Swaziland  
Sweden  Switzerland  
Tajikistan  
Thailand  
Timor -Leste  
Togo  
Tonga  
Tunisia  
Turkmenistan  
Tuvalu  
Uganda  
Ukraine  
United Arab Emirates  
United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland  
United States of America  
Uruguay  
Vanuatu  
Venezuela (Bolivarian 
Republic of)  
Viet Nam  
Zambia  
Zimbabwe  
B. Parties to the Convention that are observers to the Paris Agreement  
Angola  
Burundi  
Colombia  
Democratic Republic of the Congo  
Equatorial Guinea  
Guinea -Bissau  
Iran (Islamic Republic of)  
Iraq 
Kuwait  
Kyrgyzstan  Lebanon  
Liberia  
Libya  
Montenegro  
Mozambique  
Nicaragua  
Oman  
Russian Federation  
South Sudan  Suriname  
Syrian Arab Republic  
The former Yugoslav 
Republic of Macedonia  
Turkey  
United Republic of 
Tanzania  
Uzbekistan  
Yemen  
C. Observer States  
Holy See  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2017/2  
8  Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at the second part of its 
first session  
Resolution 2/CMA.1  
  Expression of gratitude to the Government of the F ederal 
Republic of Germany and the people of the city of Bonn  
 Resolution submitted by Fiji 
 The Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement , 
 Having met in Bonn from 6 to 17 November 2017 at the seat of the secretariat,  
1. Express their profound gratitude to the Government of the Federal Republic of 
Germany for having made it possible for the twenty -third session of the Conference of the 
Parties, the thirteenth session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the second part of the first session of the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement to be held in Bonn;  
2. Request the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany to convey to the city 
and people of Bonn the gratitude of the Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the 
Parties serving a s the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement for the hospitality 
and warmth extended to the participants.  
20th plenary meeting  
18 November 2017  
      
 
GE.19 -03301(E)  

Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting  
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
  Report of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  on the  
third  part of its first session , held in Katowice  from  
2 to 15 Dece mber 201 8 
 Addendum  
Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
Contents  
  Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties  serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
Decision   Page 
  3/CMA.1  Matters relating to the implementation of the Paris Agreement  .......   3 
  4/CMA.1  Further guidance in relation to the mitigation section of  
decision 1/CP.21  ................................ ................................ ...............    6 
  5/CMA.1  Modalities and procedures for the operation and use of a public  
registry referred to in Article 4, paragraph 12, of the Paris  
Agreement  ................................ ................................ ........................    14 
  6/CMA.1  Common time frames for nationally determined contributions  
referred to in Article 4, paragraph 10, of the Paris Agreement  .........    17 
  7/CMA.1  Modalities, work programme and functions under the Paris  
Agreement of the forum on the impact of the implementation of  
response measures  ................................ ................................ ............    18 
  8/CMA.1  Matters relating to Article 6 of the Paris Agreement and  
paragrap hs 36 –40 of decision 1/CP.21  ................................ .............    22 
  9/CMA.1  Further guidance in relation to the adaptation communication,  
including, inter alia, as a component of nationally determined  
contributions, referred to in Article 7, paragraphs 10 and 11,  
of the Paris Agreement  ................................ ................................ .....   23  United Nations  FCCC /PA/CMA/201 8/3/Add.1  
  
Distr.: General  
19 March  2019 
 
Original: English  
FCCC/PA/CMA/2018 /3/Add.1  
2    10/CMA.1  Modalities and procedures for the operation and use of a public  
registry referred to in Article 7, paragraph 12, of the Paris  
Agreement  ................................ ................................ ........................    27 
  11/CMA.1  Matters referred to in paragraphs 41, 42 and 45 of  
decision 1/CP.21  ................................ ................................ ...............    30 
  12/CMA .1 Identification of the information to be provided by Parties in  
accordance with Article 9, paragraph 5, of the Paris Agreement  ......   35 
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
 3 Decision 3/CMA.1 
  Matters relating to the implementation of the Paris 
Agreement  
The Conference of the Parties  serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
Recalling  the Paris Agreement, adopted under the Convention,  
Also recalling  Article 9, paragraph 8, Article 11, paragraph 5, and Article 19 of the 
Paris Agreement,  
Further recalling  Article 2, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement, which states that 
the Agreement will be implemented to reflect equity and the principle of common but 
differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities, in the light of different national 
circumsta nces,  
Recalling decision 1/CMA.1,  
Also recalling decisions 1/CP.21, 1/CP.22, 1/CP.23 and 1/CP.24,  
1. Congratulates  Parties that have ratified, accepted, approved or acceded to the Paris 
Agreement, and invites  those that have not yet done so to deposit their instruments of 
ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, where appropriate, with the Depositary as 
soon as possible;  
I. Paris Agreement work programme  
2. Expresses its appreciation to the Conference of the  Parties for overseeing the 
implementation of the Paris Agreement work programme by the subsidiary and constituted 
bodies;  
3. Also expresses its appreciation to the subsidiary and constituted bodies for their 
work on the implementation of the Paris Agreement work programme;  
4. Decides , having considered the draft decisions on matters relating to the Paris 
Agreement work programme forwarded by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -
fourth session and the Subsidiary Body for Implementation, to adopt them as fo llows:  
Matters relating to Article 4 of the Paris Agreement and paragraphs 22 –35 of decision 
1/CP.21  
(a) Further guidance in relation to the mitigation section of decision 1/CP.21 
(decision 4/CMA.1 );  
(b) Modalities and procedures for the operation and use of a p ublic registry 
referred to in Article 4, paragraph 12, of the Paris Agreement ( decision 5/CMA.1 ); 
(c) Common time frames for nationally determined contributions referred to in 
Article 4, paragraph 10, of the Paris Agreement ( decision 6/CMA.1 ); 
(d) Modalities, work  programme and functions under the Paris Agreement of the 
forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures ( decision 7/CMA.1 ); 
Matters relating to Article 6 of the Paris Agreement and para graphs 36 –40 of decision 
1/CP.  
(e) Matters relating to Art icle 6 of the Paris Agreement and paragraphs 36 –40 of 
decision 1/CP.21 (decision 8/CMA.1 ); FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
4  Matters relating to Article 7 of the Paris Agreement and paragraphs 41, 42 and 45 of 
decision 1/CP.21  
(f) Further guidance in relation to the adaptation communication, including, inter 
alia, as a component of nationally determined contributions, referred to in Article 7, 
paragraphs 10 and 11, of the Paris Agreement ( decision 9/CMA.1 ); 
(g) Modalities and procedures for the operation and use of a public registry 
referred to in  Article 7, paragraph 12, of the Paris Agreement ( decision 10/CMA.1 ); 
(h) Matters referred to in paragraphs 41, 42 and 45 of decision 1/CP.21 ( decision 
11/CMA.1 ); 
Matters relating to Article 9 of the Paris Agreement and paragraphs 52 –64 of decision 
1/CP.211 
(i) Identification of the information to be provided by Parties in accordance with 
Article 9, paragraph 5, of the Paris Agreement ( decision 12/CMA.1 ); 
(j) Matters relating to the Adaptation Fund ( decision 13/CMA.1 ); 
(k) Setting a new collective quantified goal on financ e in accordance with 
decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 53 ( decision 14/CMA.1 ); 
Matters relating to Article 10 of the Paris Agreement and paragraphs 66 –70 of decision 
1/CP.21  
(l) Technology framework under Article 10, paragraph 4, of the Paris 
Agreement (decision 15/ CMA.1);  
(m) Scope of and modalities for the periodic assessment referred to in paragraph 
69 of decision 1/CP.21 ( decision 16/CMA.1 ); 
Matters relating to Article 12 of the Paris Agreement and paragraphs 82 and 83 of decision 
1/CP.21  
(n) Ways of enhancing the implementation of education, training public 
awareness, public participation and public access to information so as to enhance actions 
under the Paris Agreement ( decision 17/CMA.1 ); 
Matters relating to Article 13 of the Paris Agreement and paragraphs 84 –98 of decision 
1/CP.21  
(o) Modalities, procedures and guidelines for the transparency framework for 
action and support referred to in Article 13 of the Paris Agreement ( decision 18/CMA.1 );2 
Matters relating to Article 14 of the Paris Agreement and paragraphs 99 –101 of decision 
1/CP.21  
(p) Matters relating to Article 14 of the Paris Agreement and paragraphs 99 –101 
of decision 1/CP.21 (decision 19/CMA.1 ); 
Matters relating to Article 15 of the Paris Agreement and paragraphs 102 and 103 of 
decision 1/CP.21  
(q) Modalities and  procedures for the effective operation of the committee to 
facilitate implementation and promote compliance referred to in Article 15, paragraph 2, of 
the Paris Agreement ( decision 20/CMA.1 ); 
5. Notes the technical follow -up work to be undertaken by the subs idiary and 
constituted bodies as specified in the decisions referred to in paragraph 4 above;  
                                                           
 1  The outcome on modalities for the accounting of financial resources provided and mobilized through 
public interventions in accordance with Article 9, paragraph 7, of the Paris Agreement is incorporated 
in section V of decision 18/CMA.1.  
 2 As footnote 1 above.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
 5 II. Guidance to the operating entities of the Financial 
Mechanism – the Green Climate Fund and the Global 
Environment Facility – and on the Least Developed 
Countries Fund and the Special Climate Change Fund  
6. Confirms  that the Standing Committee on Finance shall serve the Paris Agreement;  
7. Also confirms  that the Least Developed Countries Fund and the Special Climate 
Change Fund shall serve the Paris Agreement;  
8. Requests  the Standing Committee on Finance to prepare draft guidance for the 
entities entrusted with the operation of the Financial Mechanism, and on the Least 
Developed Countries Fund and the Special Climate Change Fund, for consideration and 
adoption by the Conf erence of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement at its second session ( December  2019);  
9. Confirms  that it shall provide guidance to the entities entrusted with the operation of 
the Financial Mechanism of the Convention on t he policies, programme priorities and 
eligibility criteria related to the Paris Agreement for transmission by the Conference of the 
Parties;  
10. Recommends  that, in accordance with decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 61, the 
Conference of the Parties transmit to the o perating entities of the Financial Mechanism the 
guidance contained in the decisions referred to in paragraph 4 above;  
III. Capacity -building under the Paris Agreement  
11. Recognizes  the importance of capacity -building under the Paris Agreement in 
enhancing the cap acity and ability of developing country Parties, in particular countries 
with the least capacity and those that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of 
climate change, to take effective climate change action;  
12. Decides  to consider at its secon d session any recommendations made by the 
Conference of the Parties at its twenty -fifth session ( December  2019) pursuant to decision 
1/CP.21, paragraph 81;  
13. Also decides  to consider and adopt at its second session a decision on the initial 
institutional ar rangements for capacity -building;  
IV. Administrative and budgetary matters  
14. Takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in this decision;  
15. Requests that the actions of the secretariat calle d for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
26th plenary meeting  
15 Dece mber 201 8 FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
6  Decision 4/CMA.1  
  Further guidance in relation to the mitigation section of 
decision 1/CP.21  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
 Recalling  relevant Articles of the Paris Agreement, including Articles 3 and 4,  
 Also recalling  decision 1/CP.21, paragraphs 26, 28 and 31,  
 Further recalling  that, in accordance with Article 4, paragraph 5, support shall be 
provided to developing country Parties f or the implementation of Article 4, in accordance 
with Articles 9, 10 and 11, of the Paris Agreement,  recognizing that enhanced support for 
developing country Parties will allow for higher ambition in their actions,  
 Recognizing  that Parties have different  starting points, capacities and national 
circumstances and  highlighting  the importance of capacity -building support for developing 
country Parties for the preparation and communication of their nationally determined 
contributions,  
1. Reaffirms and underscore s that, in accordance with Article 4, paragraph 5, of the 
Paris Agreement, support shall be provided to developing country Parties for the 
implementation of Article 4 of the Paris Agreement, including to continue to enhance the 
capacity of developing count ry Parties in preparing, communicating and accounting for 
their nationally determined contributions;  
2. Encourages  the relevant operating entities of the Financial Mechanism and 
constituted bodies under the Convention serving the Paris Agreement to continue t o 
provide, within their mandates, support for capacity -building as referred to in paragraph 1 
above;  
3. Invites other organizations in a position to do so to provide support for capacity -
building as referred to in paragraph 1 above;  
4. Recalls that the least de veloped countries and small island developing States may 
prepare and communicate strategies, plans and actions for low greenhouse gas emission 
development reflecting their special circumstances in accordance with Article 4, 
paragraph  6, of the Paris Agreem ent;  
5. Also recalls  Article 4, paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreement, which provides that 
developed country Parties should continue taking the lead by undertaking economy -wide 
absolute emission reduction targets, and that developing country Parties should con tinue 
enhancing their mitigation efforts and are encouraged to move over time towards economy -
wide emission reduction or limitation targets in the light of different national 
circumstances;  
Further guidance for information to facilitate clarity, transparen cy and understanding of 
nationally determined contributions, referred to in decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 28  
6.  Further recalls  Article 4, paragraph 8, of the Paris Agreement, which 
provides that, in communicating their nationally determined contributions, al l Parties shall 
provide the information necessary for clarity, transparency and understanding in accordance 
with decision 1/CP.21 and any relevant decisions of the Conference of the Parties serving 
as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement;  
7. Deci des that, in communicating their second and subsequent nationally determined 
contributions, Parties shall provide the information necessary for clarity, transparency and 
understanding contained in annex I as applicable to their nationally determined 
contri butions, and strongly encourages  Parties to provide this information in relation to 
their first nationally determined contribution, including when communicating or updating it 
by 2020;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
 7 8. Emphasizes  that the guidance on information necessary for clarity, transparency and 
understanding is without prejudice to the inclusion of components other than mitigation in a 
nationally determined contribution, notes  that Parties may provide other information when  
submitting their nationally determined contributions, and in particular that, as provided in 
Article 7, paragraph 11, of the Paris Agreement, an adaptation communication referred to in 
Article 7, paragraph 10, of the Paris Agreement may be submitted as a component of or in 
conjunction with a nationally determined contribution as referred to in Article 4, paragraph 
2, of the Paris Agreement, and also notes  the further guidance in relation to the adaptation 
commu nication contained in decision 9 /CMA.1;  
9. Recall s decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 27, applicable to Parties’ first nationally 
determined contributions, including those communicated or updated by 2020, pursuant to 
paragraph 24 of the same decision, in which the Conference of the Parties agreed that the 
infor mation to be provided by Parties communicating their nationally determined 
contributions, in order to facilitate clarity, transparency and understanding, may include, as 
appropriate, inter alia, quantifiable information on the reference point (including, a s 
appropriate, a base year), time frames and/or periods for implementation, scope and 
coverage, planning processes, assumptions and methodological approaches, including those 
for estimating and accounting for anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions and, as 
appropriate, removals, and how the Party considers that its nationally determined 
contribution is fair and ambitious, in the light of its national circumstances, and how it 
contributes towards achieving the objective of the Convention as set out in its Art icle 2;  
10. Recognizes  that each Party with a nationally determined contribution under Article 4 
of the Paris Agreement that consists of mitigation co -benefits resulting from its adaptation 
action and/or economic diversification plans consistent with Article 4 , paragraph 7, of the 
Paris Agreement shall provide the information referred to in annex I as applicable to its 
nationally determined contribution and as it relates to such mitigation co -benefits;  
Guidance for accounting for Parties’ nationally determined  contributions, referred to in 
decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 31  
11. Recalls  Article 4, paragraph 13, of the Paris Agreement, which provides that Parties 
shall account for their nationally determined contributions, and that, in accounting for 
anthropogenic emissi ons and removals corresponding to their nationally determined 
contributions, Parties shall promote environmental integrity, transparency, accuracy, 
completeness, comparability and consistency, and ensure the avoidance of double counting, 
in accordance with  guidance adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement;  
12. Also recalls  decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 31, in which the Ad Hoc Working Group 
on the Paris Agreement was requested to elaborate, drawing on ap proaches established 
under the Convention and its related legal instruments, as appropriate, guidance for 
accounting for Parties’ nationally determined contributions, as referred to in Article 4, 
paragraph 13, of the Paris Agreement, for consideration and adoption by the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its first session, 
which ensures that:  
(a) Parties account for anthropogenic emissions and removals in accordance with 
methodologies and common metrics as sessed by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change and adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties 
to the Paris Agreement;  
(b) Parties ensure methodological consistency, including on baselines, between 
the communication and implementation of nationally determined contributions;  
(c) Parties strive to include all categories of anthropogenic emissions or 
removals in their nationally determined contributions and, once a source, sink or activity is 
included, continue to include it ;  
(d) Parties shall provide an explanation of why any categories of anthropogenic 
emissions or removals are excluded;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
8  13. Decides  that, in accounting for anthropogenic emissions and removals 
corresponding to their nationally determined contributions under Article  4, paragraph 13, of 
the Paris Agreement, Parties shall account for their nationally determined contributions in 
accordance with the guidance contained in annex II;  
14. Recalls decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 32, which provides that Parties shall apply the 
guidanc e for accounting for nationally determined contributions to their second and 
subsequent nationally determined contributions, and that Parties may elect to apply such 
guidance to their first nationally determined contribution;  
15. Decides  that, in accounting fo r anthropogenic emissions and removals 
corresponding to their nationally determined contributions, Parties shall ensure the 
avoidance of double counting;  
16. Recognizes  that each Party with a nationally determined contribution under Article 4 
of the Paris Agre ement that consists of mitigation co -benefits resulting from its adaptation 
action and/or economic diversification plans consistent with Article 4, paragraph 7, of the 
Paris Agreement shall follow the guidance contained in annex II as it relates to such 
mitigation co -benefits;  
17. Decides  that Parties shall account for their nationally determined contributions in 
their biennial transparency reports, including through a structured summary, consistently 
with the guidance provided pursuant to Article 13, paragraph  7(b), of the Paris Agreement 
and any relevant guidance adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement;  
18. Also decides  to initiate the review of and, if necessary, update the information to 
facilitate cl arity, transparency and understanding of nationally determined contributions and 
the guidance for accounting for Parties’ nationally determined contributions at its tenth 
session (2027) with a view to considering and adopting a decision on the matter at it s 
eleventh session (2028);  
Further guidance on features of nationally determined contributions, referred to in decision 
1/CP.21, paragraph 26  
19. Notes  that features of nationally determined contributions are outlined in the 
relevant provisions of the Paris Ag reement;  
20. Decides  to continue consideration of further guidance on features of nationally 
determined contributions at its seventh session (2024).  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
 9 Annex I  
  Information to facilitate clarity, transparency and 
understanding of nationally determined contributions, 
referred to in decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 28  
 
 
1. Quantifiable information on the reference point (including, as appropriate, a 
base year):  
(a) Reference year(s), base year(s), reference period(s) or other starting point(s);  
(b) Quantifiable information on the reference indicators, their values in the 
reference year(s), base year(s), reference period(s) or other starting point(s), and, as 
applicable, i n the target year;  
(c) For strategies, plans and actions referred to in Article 4, paragraph 6, of the 
Paris Agreement, or polices and measures as components of nationally determined 
contributions where paragraph 1(b) above is not applicable, Parties to provid e other 
relevant information;  
(d) Target relative to the reference indicator, expressed numerically, for example 
in percentage or amount of reduction;  
(e) Information on sources of data used in quantifying the reference point(s);  
(f) Information on the circumstances u nder which the Party may update the 
values of the reference indicators.  
2. Time frames and/or periods for implementation:  
(a) Time frame and/or period for implementation, including start and end date, 
consistent with any further relevant decision adopted by the C onference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement (CMA);  
(b) Whether it is a single -year or multi -year target, as applicable.  
3. Scope and coverage:  
(a) General description of the target;  
(b) Sectors, gases, categories and pools covere d by the nationally determined 
contribution, including, as applicable, consistent with Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change (IPCC) guidelines;  
(c) How the Party has taken into consideration paragraph 31(c) and (d) of 
decision 1/CP.21;  
(d) Mitigation co-benefits resulting from Parties’ adaptation actions and/or 
economic diversification plans, including description of specific projects, measures and 
initiatives of Parties’ adaptation actions and/or economic diversification plans.  
4. Planning processes:  
(a) Information on the planning processes that the Party undertook to prepare its 
nationally determined contribution and, if available, on the Party’s implementation plans, 
including, as appropriate:  
(i) Domestic institutional arrangements, public participation and e ngagement 
with local communities and indigenous peoples, in a gender -responsive manner;  
(ii) Contextual matters, including, inter alia, as appropriate:  
a. National circumstances, such as geography, climate, economy, 
sustainable development and poverty eradication;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
10  b. Best practices and experience related to the preparation of the 
nationally determined contribution;  
c. Other contextual aspirations and priorities acknowledged when 
joining the Paris Agreement;  
(b) Specific information applicable to Parties, including regional e conomic 
integration organizations and their member States, that have reached an agreement to act 
jointly under Article 4, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement, including the Parties that 
agreed to act jointly and the terms of the agreement, in accordance wi th Article 4, 
paragraphs  
16–18, of the Paris Agreement;  
(c) How the Party’s preparation of its nationally determined contribution has 
been informed by the outcomes of the global stocktake, in accordance with Article 4, 
paragraph 9, of the Paris Agreement;  
(d) Each Party with a nationally determined contribution under Article 4 of the 
Paris Agreement that consists of adaptation action and/or economic diversification plans 
resulting in mitigation co -benefits consistent with Article 4, paragraph 7, of the Paris 
Agre ement to submit information on:  
(i) How the economic and social consequences of response measures have been 
considered in developing the nationally determined contribution;  
(ii) Specific projects, measures and activities to be implemented to contribute to 
mitigatio n co -benefits, including information on adaptation plans that also yield 
mitigation co -benefits, which may cover, but are not limited to, key sectors, such as 
energy, resources, water resources, coastal resources, human settlements and urban 
planning, agri culture and forestry; and economic diversification actions, which may 
cover, but are not limited to, sectors such as manufacturing and industry, energy and 
mining, transport and communication, construction, tourism, real estate, agriculture 
and fisheries.  
5. Assumptions and methodological approaches, including those for estimating 
and accounting for anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions and, as appropriate, 
removals:  
(a) Assumptions and methodological approaches used for accounting for 
anthropogenic greenhouse ga s emissions and removals corresponding to the Party’s 
nationally determined contribution, consistent with decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 31, and 
accounting guidance adopted by the CMA;  
(b) Assumptions and methodological approaches used for accounting for the 
implementation of policies and measures or strategies in the nationally determined 
contribution;  
(c) If applicable, information on how the Party will take into account existing 
methods and guidance under the Convention to account for anthropogenic emissions and 
removals, in accordance with Article 4, paragraph 14, of the Paris Agreement, as 
appropriate;  
(d) IPCC methodologies and metrics used for estimating anthropogenic 
greenhouse gas emissions and removals;  
(e) Sector -, category - or activity -specific assumptions, methodologies and 
approaches consistent with IPCC guidance, as appropriate, including, as applicable:  
(i) Approach to addressing emissions and subsequent removals from natural 
disturbances on managed lands;  
(ii) Approach used to account for emissions and removals from harvested wood 
products;  
(iii) Approach used to address the effects of age -class structure in forests;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
 11 (f) Other assumptions and methodological approaches used for understanding 
the nationally determined cont ribution and, if applicable, estimating corresponding 
emissions and removals, including:  
(i) How the reference indicators, baseline(s) and/or reference level(s), including, 
where applicable, sector -, category - or activity -specific reference levels, are 
constru cted, including, for example, key parameters, assumptions, definitions, 
methodologies, data sources and models used;  
(ii) For Parties with nationally determined contributions that contain non -
greenhouse -gas components, information on assumptions and methodolog ical 
approaches used in relation to those components, as applicable;  
(iii) For climate forcers included in nationally determined contributions not 
covered by IPCC guidelines, information on how the climate forcers are estimated;  
(iv) Further technical information, as  necessary;  
(g) The intention to use voluntary cooperation under Article 6 of the Paris 
Agreement, if applicable.  
6. How the Party considers that its nationally determined contribution is fair and 
ambitious in the light of its national circumstances:  
(a) How the Par ty considers that its nationally determined contribution is fair and 
ambitious in the light of its national circumstances;  
(b) Fairness considerations, including reflecting on equity;  
(c) How the Party has addressed Article 4, paragraph 3, of the Paris Agreement;  
(d) How the Party has addressed Article 4, paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreement;  
(e) How the Party has addressed Article 4, paragraph 6, of the Paris Agreement.  
7. How the nationally determined contribution contributes towards achieving the 
objective of the Convent ion as set out in its Article 2:  
(a) How the nationally determined contribution contributes towards achieving 
the objective of the Convention as set out in its Article 2;  
(b) How the nationally determined contribution contributes towards Article 2, 
paragraph 1(a) , and Article 4, paragraph 1, of the Paris Agreement.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
12  Annex II  
  Accounting for Parties’ nationally determined contributions, 
referred to in decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 31  
 
1. Accounting for anthropogenic emissions and removals in accordance with 
methodologies and common metrics assessed by the Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change (IPCC) and adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement:  
(a) Parties account for anthropogenic e missions and removals in accordance with 
methodologies and common metrics assessed by the IPCC  and in accordance with decision 
18/CMA.1;  
(b) Parties whose nationally determined contribution cannot be accounted for 
using methodologies covered by IPCC guidelines  provide information on their own 
methodology used, including for nationally determined contributions pursuant to Article 4, 
paragraph 6, of the Paris Agreement, if applicable;  
(c) Parties that draw on existing methods and guidance established under the 
Conven tion and its related legal instruments, as appropriate, provide information on how 
they have done so;  
(d) Parties provide information on methodologies used to track progress arising 
from the implementation of policies and measures, as appropriate;  
(e) Parties that  decide to address emissions and subsequent removals from 
natural disturbances on managed lands provide detailed information on the approach used 
and how it is consistent with relevant IPCC guidance, as appropriate, or indicate the 
relevant section of the national greenhouse gas inventory report containing that 
information;  
(f) Parties that account for emissions and removals from harvested wood 
products provide detailed information on which IPCC approach has been used to estimate 
emissions and removals;  
(g) Parties  that address the effects of age -class structure in forests provide 
detailed information on the approach used and how this is consistent with relevant IPCC 
guidance, as appropriate.  
2. Ensuring methodological consistency, including on baselines, between the 
communication and implementation of nationally determined contributions:  
(a) Parties maintain consistency in scope and coverage, definitions, data sources, 
metrics, assumptions and methodological approaches;  
(b) Any greenhouse gas data and estimation methodologies used for accounting 
should be consistent with the Party’s greenhouse gas inventories, pursuant to Article 13, 
paragraph 7(a), of the Paris Agreement, if applicable;  
(c) Parties strive to avoid overestimating or underestimating projected emissions 
and removals used for accounting;  
(d) For Parties that apply technical changes to update reference points, reference 
levels or projections, the changes should reflect either of the following:  
(i) Changes in the Party’s inventory;  
(ii) Improvements in accuracy that maintain methodo logical consistency;  
(e) Parties transparently report any methodological changes and technical 
updates made during the implementation of their nationally determined contribution.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
 13 3. Striving to include all categories of anthropogenic emissions or removals in the 
nationally determined contribution and, once a source, sink or activity is included, 
continu ing to include it:  
(a) Parties account for all categories of anthropogenic emissions and removals 
corresponding to their nationally determined contribution;  
(b) Parties str ive to include all categories of anthropogenic emissions and 
removals in their nationally determined contribution, and, once a source, sink or activity is 
included, continue to include it.  
4. Providing an explanation of why any categories of anthropogenic emi ssions or 
removals are excluded.   
26th plenary meeting  
15 December  2018 FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
14  Decision 5/CMA.1  
  Modalities and procedures for the operation and use of a 
public registry referred to in Article 4, paragraph 12, of the 
Paris Agreement  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement ,  
Recalling Article 4, paragraph 12, of the Paris Agreement  and decision 1/CP.21, 
paragraph 29,  
Noting with appreciation the efforts made by the secretariat to develop and maintain 
an interim public registry pursuant to decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 30 , 
1. Adopts the modalities and procedures for the operation and use  of the public registry 
referred to in Article 4, paragraph 12, of the Paris Agreement as contained in the annex;  
2. Decides that the interim public registry prepared by the secretariat pursuant to 
decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 30, shall serve as the public re gistry referred to in Article 4, 
paragraph 12, of the Paris Agreement following any revisions required to bring it into 
accordance with the modalities and procedures referred to in paragraph 1 above, subject to 
confirmation by the Conference of the Parties  serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Paris Agreement at its second session ( December  2019);  
3. Also decides that the public registry referred to in paragraph 1 above shall be made 
available by the secretariat, together with the public registry refer red to in Article 7, 
paragraph 12, of the Paris Agreement, through a registry portal with two parts, comprising 
nationally determined contributions and adaptation communications, respectively;  
4. Requests the secretariat:  
(a) To develop a prototype of the publi c registry referred to in Article 4, 
paragraph  12, of the Paris Agreement by June 2019, and present it to Parties at an event to 
be held in conjunction with the fiftieth sessions of the subsidiary bodies (June 2019);  
(b) To operate the public registry referred to in Article 4, paragraph 12, of the 
Paris Agreement, and to provide assistance on its use to Parties, other stakeholders and the 
public;  
5. Decides to consider and conclude at its second session whether the prototype  
referred to in paragraph 4(a) above conforms to the modalities and procedures referred to in 
paragraph 1 above;  
6. Also decides that the interim public registry prepared by the secretariat pursuant to 
decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 30, shall continue to be use d on an interim basis for the 
purpose of implementing Article 4, paragraph 12, of the Paris Agreement until its second 
session;  
7. Takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat pursuant to the provis ions contained in paragraphs 2 –6 above;  
8. Requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
 15 Annex  
Modalities and procedures for the operation and use of a 
public registry referred to in Article 4, paragraph 12, of the 
Paris Agreement  
I. Modalities for the operation of the public registry  
1. The public registry referred to in Article 4, paragraph 12, of the Paris Agreement:  
(a) Presents the recorded nationally determined contributions (NDCs) in tabular 
format, with one row for each NDC and columns displaying, as appropriate, name of the 
Party, do cument title, document file type, version number, status, language and date of 
submission;  
(b) Preserves the integrity of the NDCs in accordance with their nationally 
determined nature;  
(c) Has the capability of sorting and allowing the viewing of NDCs;  
(d) Avoids unauthorized alterations and deletions of its content by using Internet 
security measures;  
(e) Ensures user -friendly navigation within the registry and to other relevant 
registries and web resources operated and maintained by the secretariat, including the 
public registry referred to in Article 7, paragraph 12, of the Paris Agreement;  
(f) Utilizes relevant web tools to provide updates and notify users of new and 
modified registry content;  
(g) Constitutes an intuitive, easy -to-use web -based platform;  
(h) Provides a user -friendly interface in all six official languages of the United 
Nations.  
II. Procedures for the use of the public registry  
A. Submission of nationally determined contributions  
2. The national focal point of each Party submits the Party’s NDC by uploading it to 
the public registry using its unique user account.  
3. The secretariat:  
(a) Provides Parties with technical assistance on uploading NDCs to the public 
registry, as required;  
(b) Contacts the national focal point to confirm the receipt of an NDC, requests 
clarificatio ns when necessary and confirms the finalization of the recording process of the 
submitted NDC in the public registry;  
(c) Undertakes an Internet security check of all submitted NDCs before 
recording them in the public registry.  
B. Maintaining a record of nation ally determined contributions  
4. The public registry constitutes an archive and, as a matter of public record, 
continues to maintain all previously submitted NDCs.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
16  C. Access to nationally determined contributions  
5. Parties, other stakeholders and the public can  view, read and download NDCs from 
the public registry.  
6. To the extent possible, the public registry should be easily accessible to users with 
slow Internet connections.  
III. Roles  
7. The national focal point of each Party is assigned a unique user account to manage 
the Party’s content in the public registry.  
8. The secretariat acts as the custodian of the public registry and is responsible for its 
maintenance. To that end, the secretaria t:  
(a) Operates and updates the public registry in accordance with these modalities 
and procedures, including taking precautionary action to avoid unauthorized access to or 
alteration of its content;  
(b) Communicates with and provides assistance to Parties, othe r stakeholders and 
the public in using the public registry, including through a user guide, training programmes 
and online support, as appropriate.  
26th plenary meeting  
15 December 2018  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
 17 Decision 6/CMA.1  
  Common time frames for nationally determined 
contributions referred to in Article 4, paragraph 10, of the 
Paris Agreement  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement ,  
Recalling  Article 4, paragraphs 9 and 10, of the Paris Agreement , 
Also recalling decision 1/CP.21, paragraphs 23 –25, 
1. Welcomes the progress made1 in the consideration of common time frames for 
nationally determined contributions referred to in Article 4, paragraph 10, of the Paris 
Agreement, and takes note  of the rich e xchange of views and range of options considered 
and proposed by Parties on this matter;2 
2. Decides that Parties shall apply common time frames to their nationally determined 
contributions to be implemented from 2031 onward;  
3. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to continue the consideration of 
common time frames for nationally determined contributions at its fiftieth session (June 
2019) with a view to making a recommendation thereon for consideration and adoption by 
the Conference of the Parties se rving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement.  
26th plenary meeting  
15 December 2018  
 
                                                           
 1 The most recent informal document on deliberations on this issue is available at 
https://unfccc.int/documents/186278 . The ideas expressed in that document are not exhaustive, do n ot 
reflect consensus or all views, and are without prejudice to the views of Parties.  
 2 See document APA -SBSTA -SBI.2018.Informal.2.Add.1 (part 2), chapter 1.3.B, paragraph 1, options 
1–3. The in -session submissions are available at https://unfccc.int/process/conferences/bonn -climate -
change -conference -april-2018/sessions/sbi -48#eq -16 (first part of the forty -eighth session of the 
Subsi diary Body for Implementation), https://unfccc.int/event/sbi -48-2#eq -4 (second part of the forty -
eighth session  of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation) and https://unfccc.int/event/sbi -49#eq -19 
(forty -ninth session of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation) and the pre -session submissions at 
https://www4.unf ccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx . FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
18  Decision 7/CMA.1  
  Modalities, work programme and functions of the forum 
under the Paris Agreement on the impact of the 
implementation of response  measures  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
 Recalling  Article 4 of the Convention,  
 Also recalling Article 2 and Article 3, paragraph 14, of the Kyo to Protocol,  
 Reaffirming  Article 4, paragraph 15, of the Paris Agreement,  
 Recalling  decisions 1/CP.16, 2/CP.17, 8/CP.17, 1/CP.21 and 11/CP.21,  
 Recognizing  that Parties may be affected not only by climate change but also by the 
impacts of the measures taken in response to it,  
 Acknowledging  that there are both positive and negative impacts associated with 
measures taken in response to climate change,  
 Also acknowledging  that response measures should be understood in the broader 
context of the transition towards low greenhouse gas emissions and climate -resilient 
development,  
 Reaffirming  that Parties should cooperate to promote a supportive and inclusive 
international economic system that will lead to sustainable economic growth and 
development in all Parties,  
1. Decides  that in accordance with decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 33, the forum on the 
impact of the implementation of response measures (hereinafter referred  to as the forum) 
under the subsidiary bodies shall serve the Paris Agreement in relation to matters under the 
Paris Agreement;  
2. Adopts  the modalities, work programme and functions of the forum contained in the 
annex;  
3. Acknowledges  that there is one single forum that covers the work of the Conference 
of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to 
the Paris Agreement on all mat ters relating to the impact of the implementation of response 
measures;  
4. Affirms  that the forum shall report to the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement in respect of matters falling under Article 4, 
paragr aph 15, of the Paris Agreement, where the forum requires the guidance of the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement;  
5. Decides  to establish a Katowice Committee of Experts on the Impacts of the 
Implementation of Response Measures (hereinafter referred to as the Katowice Committee 
on Impacts ) to support the work of the forum on the impact of the implementation of 
response measures and to operate in accordance with the terms of reference contained in the 
annex;  
6. Requests the subsidiary bodies to review, at their fifty -ninth session s (November 
2023), the functions, work programme and modalities of the forum with a view to 
providing recommendations for consideration by the Conference of the Parties at its 
twenty -ninth session (November 2023), the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at its nineteenth session (November 2023) and 
the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at  
its sixth session (November 2023);  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
 19 7. Also r equests the secretariat to organize the meeting s of the Katowice Committee on 
Impacts , to be held for two days, in conjunction with the sessions of the subsidiary bodies 
starting from their fiftieth sessions  (June 2019) ; 
8. Invites  Parties to nominate members to serve on the Katowice Committee on 
Impacts , noting that the Chairs of the subsidiary bodies shall be notified of these 
appointments by 15 April 2019;  
9. Decides that the forum shall develop and recommend a six -year workplan in line 
with the forum’s functions, work programme and modalities, taking into account relevant 
policy issues of concern to Parties, for consideration and adoption by the subsidiary bodies 
at their fiftieth sessions;  
10. Requests the subsidiary bodi es to conduct a midterm review of the workplan of the 
forum, starting from the ir fifty-sixth sessions (June 2022), with a view to enhancing the 
effectiveness of the forum;  
11. Invites Parties to submit  their views on the workplan of the forum and the Katowice 
Committee on Impacts  via the submission portal1 by 15 April 2019;  
12. Decides  that the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures 
shall provide recommendations for consideration by the subsidiary bodies with a view to 
the subsidia ry bodies recommending actions for consideration and adoption by  the 
Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of 
the Partie s to the Paris Agreement;  
13. Requests  the secretariat to support the implementation of the work programme of the 
forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures;  
14. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be underta ken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 2, 5 and 7 above;  
15. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.   
                                                           
 1 https://unfccc.int/submissions_and_statements . FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
20  Annex  
  Modalities, work programme and functions under the Paris 
Agreement of the forum on the impact of the implementation 
of response  measures  
I. Functions  
1. The forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures (hereinafter 
referred to as the forum) sh all have the following functions:  
(a) Provide a platform allowing Parties to share, in an interactive manner, 
information, experiences, case studies, best practices and views, and to facilitate assessment 
and analysis of the impact of the implementation of res ponse measures, including the use 
and development of modelling tools and methodologies, with a view to recommending 
specific actions;  
(b) Provide recommendations to the subsidiary bodies on the actions referred to 
in paragraph 1(a) above for their consideratio n, with a view to recommending those actions, 
as appropriate, to the Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of the Parties serving as 
the meeting of the Partie s to the Paris Agreement;  
(c) Provide concrete examples, case studies and practices in order to enhance the 
capacity of Parties, in particular developing country Parties, to deal with the impact of the 
implementation of response measures;  
(d) Address the effects o f the implementation of response measures under the 
Convention, the Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement by enhancing cooperation among 
Parties, stakeholders, external organizations, experts and institutions, by enhancing the 
capacity and the understandi ng of Parties of the impacts of mitigation actions and by 
enabling the exchange of information, experience and best practices among Parties to raise 
their resilience to these impacts;  
(e) Respond and take into consideration the relevant outcomes of different 
processes under the Paris Agreement;  
(f) Promote action to minimize the adverse impacts and maximize the positive 
impacts of the implementation of response measures.  
II. Work programme  
2. The work programme comprises the following areas of work in order to address th e 
concerns of all Parties, particularly developing country Parties:  
(a) Economic diversification and transformation;  
(b) Just transition of the workforce and the creation of decent work and quality 
jobs;  
(c) Assessing and analysing the impacts of the implementation of response 
measures;  
(d) Facilitating the development of tools and methodologies to assess the impacts 
of the implementation of response measures.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
 21 III. Modalities  
3. The forum shall meet twice a year in conjunction with the sessions of the subsidiary 
bodies and will be convened under a joint agenda item of the subsidiary bodies and operate 
in accordance with the procedures applicable to contact groups.  
4. The Katowice Committee of Experts on the Impacts of the Implementation of 
Response Measures (KCI) shall support the forum on the impact of the implementation of 
response measures to implement its work programme and shall operate in accordance with 
the following terms of reference:  
(a) The KCI shall meet twice a year, for two days per meeting, in conjunction 
with the meeting s of the subsidiary bodies;  
(b) The KCI shall be composed of 14 members, with two members from each of 
the five United Nations regional groups, one member from the least developed countries, 
one member from the small island developing States and two members f rom relevant 
intergovernmental organizations;  
(c) Members shall serve in their expert capacity and should have relevant 
qualifications and expertise in the technical and socioeconomic fields related to the areas of 
the work programme of the forum;  
(d) Members id entified in paragraph 4(b) above shall be nominated by their 
respective groups. The Chairs of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation  and the 
Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice  shall be notified of these 
appointments;  
(e) Members identifie d in paragraph 4(b) above shall serve a term of two years 
and shall be eligible to serve a maximum of two consecutive terms in office;  
(f) The KCI shall elect, on a consensus basis, two members from among its 
members identified in paragraph 4(b) above to serve  as Co -Chairs for a term of two years 
each, taking into account the need to ensure equitable geographical representation;  
(g) If one of the Co -Chairs is temporarily unable to fulfil the obligations of the 
office, any other member designated by the KCI shall serve as Co -Chair;  
(h) Meetings of the KCI shall be open to attendance , as observers, by all Parties 
and accredited observer organizations unless othe rwise decided by the KCI;  
(i) The KCI shall operate on the basis of consensus of its members;  
(j) Members of the KCI shall prepare an annual report for the forum to consider 
with a view to making recommendations to the Conference of the Parties, the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference 
of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement.  
5. The forum and the KCI may use the following modalities, as appropriate and as 
decided on a case -by-case basis, in order to carry out the work programme of the forum:  
(a) Building awareness and enhancing information -sharing through the exchange 
and sharing of expe rience and best practices;  
(b) Preparing technical papers, case studies, concrete examples and guidelines;  
(c) Receiving input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations;  
(d) Organizing workshops.  
26th plenary meeting  
15 December 2018  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
22  Decision 8/CMA.1  
  Matters relating to Article 6 of the Paris Agreement and 
paragraphs 36 –40 of decision 1/CP.21  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
Recalling  Article 6, paragraphs 2, 4 and 8, of the Paris Agreement,  
Also recalling decision  1/CP.21, paragraphs 36 –40, 
1. Notes  the consideration by the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological 
Advice and the Conference of the Parties of the mandates contained  in decision 1/CP.21, 
paragraphs 36 –40;1 
2. Also notes  that draft decision texts on these matters  in the proposal by the President2 
were considered, but that Parties could not reach consensus thereon;  
3. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice to continue 
consideration of the mandates referred to in paragraph 1 above, taking into consideration 
the draft decision texts referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 above, with a view to forwarding a  
draft decision for consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its second session ( December  2019);  
4. Notes  that information provided in a structured summary referred to in deci sion 
18/CMA.1 , paragraph 77(d), is without prejudice to the outcomes on these matters.  
26th plenary meeting  
15 December 2018  
 
                                                           
 1 See the draft texts at https://unfccc.i nt/documents/186331 , https://unfccc.int/documents/186333  and 
https://unfccc.int/documents/186334 .  
 2 Available at 
https://unfccc.int/sites/default/files/resource/Katowice%20text%2C%2014%20Dec2018_1015AM.pdf . 
Sections III.A, III.B and III.C do not reflect consensus on these matters and are without prejudice to 
the views of Parties or the consideration of the matter by the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
 23 Decision 9/CMA.1  
  Further guidance in relation to the adaptation 
communication, including, inter alia, as a component of 
nationally determined contributions, referred to in Article 7, 
paragraphs 10 and 11, of the Paris Agreement  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
Recalling relevant provisions of  the Convention and the Paris Agreement, in 
particular Article 7,  
Recognizing the importance of flexibility provided to Parties by Article 7, 
paragraphs 10 and 11, of the Paris Agreement for submitting and updating the adaptation 
communication,  
Recalling decisions 4/CP.5, 17/CP.8 and 5/CP.17,  
Recognizing the links between adaptation and sustainable development, including 
the Sustainable Development Goals and the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk 
Reduction 2015 –2030,   
Emphasizing the intrinsic relationship that climate change actions, responses and 
impacts have with equitable access to sustainable development and eradication of poverty,  
Recalling that continuous and enhanced international support shall be provided to 
developing country Parties for the implem entation of Article 7, paragraphs 7, 9, 10 and 11, 
of the Paris Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 9, 10 and 11 of the 
Paris Agreement,  
1. Notes  that the purpose of the adaptation communication is to:  
(a) Increase the visibility and profile of adaptation and its balance with 
mitigation;  
(b) Strengthen adaptation action and support for developing countries;  
(c) Provide input to the global stocktake;  
(d) Enhance learning and understanding of adaptation needs and actions;  
2. Decides that the adaptation communi cation:  
(a) Is country -driven and flexible, including in the choice of communication or 
document, as provided in Article 7, paragraphs 10 and 11, of the Paris Agreement;  
(b) Shall not pose any additional burden on developing country Parties, is not a 
basis for comparison between Parties and is not subject to review;  
3. Recalls that, as provided in Article 7, paragraphs 10 and 11, of the Paris Agreement, 
each Party should, as app ropriate, submit and update an adaptation communication, and 
that the adaptation communication shall be, as appropriate, submitted and updated 
periodically, as a component of or in conjunction with other communications or documents, 
including a national ad aptation plan, a nationally determined contribution as referred to in 
Article 4, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement and/or a national communication;  
4. Decides  that Parties may, as appropriate, also submit and update their adaptation 
communication as a compo nent of or in conjunction with the reports on impacts and 
adaptation as stipulated in Article 13, paragraph 8, of the Paris Agreement;  
5. Recalls  that the adaptation communications shall be recorded in a public registry 
maintained by the secretariat in accord ance with the modalities and procedures contained in 
decision 10/CMA.1;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
24  6. Invites  Parties that choose to submit an adaptation communication to do so in time to 
inform each global stocktake;  
7. Also invites  Parties, according to their national circumstances and  capacities, to 
provide in their adaptation communication information on the elements referred to in 
paragraph (a –d) of the annex and to provide, as appropriate, additional information on the 
elements referred to in paragraph (e –i) of the annex;   
8. Further invites  Parties to include, as appropriate, ex ante information in their 
adaptation communication based on the elements identified in the annex;  
9. Acknowledges  that Parties may, when submitting an adaptation communication, 
tailor the information provided, ta king into account the specific communications or 
documents used;  
10. Encourages  Parties to clearly identify the part of the communication or document 
chosen, in accordance with Article 7, paragraph 11, that constitutes their adaptation 
communication, and to nu mber their adaptation communications sequentially;  
11. Also encourages  Parties that choose to submit an adaptation communication as a 
component of or in conjunction with a nationally determined contribution to use the 
guidance included in this decision, as app ropriate;  
12. Invites Parties that opt to use a nationally determined contribution consistently with 
Article 4, paragraph 7, and in line with paragraph 11 above to provide information on the 
element referred to in paragraph (f) of the annex;  
13.  Acknowledges  that Parties that choose to submit their adaptation 
communication as part of a national communication or a national adaptation plan may 
provide information taking into consideration the guidelines contained in document 
FCCC/CP/1999/7 and decisions 17/CP.8 and  5/CP.17;  
14. Also acknowledges  that adaptation communications and other relevant information 
will be synthesized in line with paragraph 23(b) of decision 19/ CMA.1 and will contribute 
to reviewing the overall progress in achieving the global goal on adaptatio n; 
15. Requests  the Adaptation Committee to develop, with the engagement of the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Working Group II, using relevant existing 
guidance as a starting point, as appropriate, by June 2022, draft supplementary guidance for 
voluntary use by Parties in communicating information in accordance with the elements 
contained in the annex, for consideration by the subsidiary bodies at their fifty -seventh 
sessions (November 2022) in the context of their consideration of the report of the  
Adaptation Committee;  
16. Decides  to take stock of, and if necessary revise, the guidance contained in this 
decision, taking into account the submissions referred to in paragraph 17 below and the 
synthesis report referred to in paragraph 18 below, at its eigh th session (2025);  
17. Invites  Parties to submit via the submission portal1 by February 2025 information on 
their experience with the application of the guidance contained in this decision;  
18. Requests  the secretariat to prepare a synthesis report on the submiss ions referred to 
in paragraph 17 above for consideration by the Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its 
sixty -second session (2025);   
19. Urges developed country Parties and invites other Parties that provide resources on a 
voluntary basis, United Nations o rganizations, specialized agencies and other relevant 
organizations as well as bilateral and multilateral agencies to continue to mobilize support 
for adaptation activities in developing country Parties;  
20. Invites the Global Environment Facility, in line wit h its existing mandate, to 
consider channelling support to developing country Parties for the preparation and 
submission of their adaptation communications, as a component of or in conjunction with 
other communications or documents, including a national ad aptation plan, a nationally 
                                                           
 1  https://unfccc.int/submiss ions_and_statements .  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
 25 determined contribution as referred to in Article 4, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement, 
and/or a national communication;  
21. Encourages the Green Climate Fund, the Global Environment Facility, the 
Adaptation Fund, the Climate Tec hnology Centre and Network and the Paris Committee on 
Capacity -building, in line with their existing mandates and governing instruments, to 
continue channelling support to developing country Parties for the implementation of their 
adaptation plans and acti ons in accordance with the priorities and needs outlined in their 
adaptation communication;  
22. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraph 18 above;  
23. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
26  Annex  
  Elements of an adaptation communication  
 An adaptation communication may include information on the following elements:  
(a) National circumstances, institutional arrangements and legal frameworks;  
(b) Impacts, risks and vulnerabilities, as appropriate;  
(c) National adaptation priorities, strategies, policies, plans, goals and actions;  
(d) Implementati on and support needs of, and provision of support to, developing 
country Parties;  
(e) Implementation of adaptation actions and plans, including:  
(i) Progress and results achieved;  
(ii) Adaptation efforts of developing countries for recognition;  
(iii) Cooperation on enhancing  adaptation at the national, regional and 
international  level, as appropriate;  
(iv) Barriers, challenges and gaps related to the implementation of adaptation;  
(v) Good practices, lessons learned and information -sharing;  
(vi) Monitoring and evaluation;  
(f) Adaptation actions  and/or economic diversification plans, including those 
that result  in mitigation co -benefits;  
(g) How adaptation actions contribute to other international frameworks and/or  
conventions;  
(h) Gender -responsive adaptation action and traditional knowledge, knowledge 
of indigenous peoples and local knowledge systems related to adaptation, where 
appropriate;  
(i) Any other information related to adaptation.  
26th plenary meeting  
15 December 2018  
     
 
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
 27 Decision 10/CMA.1  
  Modalities and procedures  for the operation and use of a 
public registry referred to in Article 7, paragraph 12, of the 
Paris Agreement  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement ,  
Recalling  Article 7, paragraphs 11 and 12, of the Paris Agreement,  
1. Decides to establish the public registry for adaptation communications referred to in 
Article 7, paragraph 12, of the Paris Agreement to contain adaptation communications 
submitted by Parties in acc ordance with Article 7, paragraph 11, of the Paris Agreement ;  
2. Also decides  to adopt the modalities and procedures for the operation and use of the 
public registry referred to in paragraph 1 above as contained in the annex;  
3. Further decides  that the public registry referred to in paragraph 1 above shall be 
made available by the secretariat, together with the public registry referred to in Article 4, 
paragraph 12, of the Paris Agreement, through a registry portal with two parts, comprising 
adaptation communic ations and nationally determined contributions, respectively;  
4. Requests  the secretariat:  
 (a) To develop a prototype of the public registry referred to in paragraph 1 above 
by June 2019, in accordance with the modalities and procedures referred to in paragr aph 2 
above, and present it to Parties at an event to be held in conjunction with the fiftieth 
sessions of the subsidiary bodies (June 2019);  
 (b) To operate the public registry referred to in paragraph 1 above and to provide 
assistance on its use to Parties, other stakeholders and the public;  
5. Decides  to consider and conclude at its second session ( December  2019) whether the 
prototype referred to in paragraph 4(a) above shall serve as the public registry referred to in 
Article 7, paragraph 12, of the P aris Agreement;  
6. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraph 4 above.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
28  Annex  
  Modalities and procedures for the operation and use of a 
public re gistry referred to in Article 7, paragraph 12, of the 
Paris Agreement  
I. Modalities for the operation of the public registry  
1. The public registry referred to in Article 7, paragraph 12, of the Paris Agreement:  
(a) Presents the recorded adaptation communications o n a separate page for each 
Party in tabular format, with one row for each adaptation communication and columns 
displaying, as appropriate: name of Party; document title; document type; hyperlinks to 
corresponding documents containing the adaptation communi cations, as appropriate, 
submitted as a component of or in conjunction with other communications or documents, 
including a national adaptation plan, a nationally determined contribution and/or a national 
communication, as referred to in Article 7, paragrap h 11, of the Paris Agreement; and 
version number, status, language and date of submission;  
(b) Provides the flexibility for each Party to submit its adaptation communication 
in the way it wishes;  
(c) Has the capability of sorting, recording and displaying adaptat ion 
communications;  
(d) Preserves the integrity of the adaptation communications in accordance with 
their country -driven nature;  
(e) Avoids unauthorized access to or alteration of its content;  
(f) Ensures user -friendly navigation to and between relevant registries an d other 
web resources;  
(g) Utilizes relevant web tools to notify users, upon request, of new and modified 
registry content;  
(h) Constitutes an intuitive, easy -to-use web -based platform;  
(i) Provides a user -friendly interface in all six official languages of the United  
Nations.  
II. Procedures for the use of the public registry  
A. Submission of adaptation communications  
2. The secretariat:  
(a) Provides each Party with a unique user account for the public registry;  
(b) Provides technical assistance to Parties for uploading adaptation 
communications to the public registry, as required.  
3. The national focal point of each Party submits the Party’s adaptation communication 
by uploading it to the registry, or informs the secretariat of the vehicle used as the 
adaptation communication.  
B. Maintai ning a record of adaptation communications  
4. The public registry constitutes an archive and maintains the hyperlinks of all 
previously submitted adaptation communications referred to in Article 7, paragraph 11, of 
the Paris Agreement as a matter of public re cord.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
 29 C. Access to adaptation communications  
5. Parties , non -State actors, other stakeholders and the public can view, read and 
download the adaptation communications from the public registry.  
6. To the extent possible, the public registry should be easily accessib le to users with 
slow Internet connections.  
III. Roles  
7. The national focal point of each Party manages the Party’s interaction with the 
secretariat regarding the adaptation communication in the public registry.  
8. The national focal point of each Party is assigned  a unique user account to manage 
the Party’s content in the public registry.  
9. The secretariat communicates with and provides assistance to Parties using the 
public registry, including through a user guide, training programmes and online support.  
26th plenary meeting  
15 December 2018  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
30  Decision 11/CMA.1  
  Matters referred to in paragraphs 41, 42 and 45 of decision 
1/CP.21  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement ,  
Recalling Article 7 of the Paris Agreement,  
Also recalling decision 1/CP.21, paragraphs 41, 42 and 45,  
Noting with appreciation the technical work undertaken by the Adaptation 
Committee and the Least Developed Countries Expert Group, in collaboration with the 
Standing C ommittee on Finance,1 in relation to decision 1/CP.21, paragraphs 41, 42 and 45,  
I. Ways to enhance the coherence of the work of adaptation -
related institutional arrangements  
1. Decides  that the Adaptation Committee and the Least Developed Countries Expert 
Group  shall serve the Paris Agreement;  
2. Assigns  any future and emerging adaptation -related work necessary for the effective 
implementation of the Paris Agreement to existing institutions;  
3. Encourages  institutional arrangements related to finance, technology devel opment 
and transfer and capacity -building,2 in line with their mandates, to strive for a balance 
between adaptation and mitigation while respecting a country -driven approach;  
4. Invites  partner organizations of the Nairobi work programme on impacts, 
vulnerabi lity and adaptation to climate change, in collaboration with the Adaptation 
Committee, to support the work of other adaptation -related institutional arrangements, in 
particular by providing relevant scientific and technical information and sharing 
knowledg e; 
5. Also invites the Consultative Group of Experts and the Least Developed Countries 
Expert Group, in line with their mandates, as appropriate, ensuring efficiency and 
consistency, to work together on training for assessing vulnerability and other aspects o f 
adaptation;  
6. Requests  the Adaptation Committee, as necessary and in consultation with relevant 
adaptation -related institutions, to continue to make recommendations in its annual report on 
enhancing collaboration and promoting coherence and synergies with a view to addressing 
Parties’ evolving adaptation -related needs;  
7. Urges developed country Parties and invites other Parties that provide resources on a 
voluntary basis to make available sufficient resources for the successful and timely 
implementation of the work of adaptation -related institutions under the Convention and the 
Paris Agreement;  
                                                           
 1 See documents FCCC/SB/2017/2, FCCC/SBI/2017/14 and FCCC/SB/2017/2/Add.1 –
FCCC/SBI/2017/14/Add.1.  
 2 The institutional arrangements on finance include the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism 
of the Convention and the Paris Agreement.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
 31 II. Modalities for recognizing the adaptation efforts of 
developing country Parties  
8. Notes  the existing work of the Adaptation Committee and the Least Developed 
Countries Expert Group related to synthesizing information on specific adaptation themes 
and on relevant lessons learned and good practices;  
9. Requests  the secretariat to include in the synthesis report prepared for the global 
stocktake called for in paragraph 23(b) of decision 19 /CMA.1 info rmation on the 
adaptation efforts of developing country Parties, in order to facilitate recognition of such 
efforts in the global stocktake, drawing on, inter alia, the most recent documents that may 
contain adaptation information, which may include adapta tion communications, national 
adaptation plans, national communications, nationally determined contributions, other 
relevant reports prepared under the transparency framework and reports of the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and other relevant s cientific bodies;  
10. Decides  to recognize, guided by the high -level committee and taking into account a 
country -driven approach, the adaptation efforts of developing country Parties during the 
high-level events of the global stocktake referred to in paragrap h 33 of decision 19/CMA.1;  
11. Requests  the secretariat to prepare a report summarizing the recognition of 
adaptation efforts of developing country Parties referred to in paragraph 10 above drawing 
on, inter alia, the synthesis report referred to in paragraph 9 above and the outputs referred 
to in paragraph 34 of decision 19/CMA.1;  
12. Decides  to make use of existing national, regional and global events, including the 
NAP Expo and the Adaptation Forum of the Adaptation Committee, to showcase the 
adaptation efforts of developing country Parties;  
13. Requests  the secretariat, under the guidance of the Adaptation Committee and the 
Least Developed Countries Expert Group and in collaboration with relevant stakeholders, 
to prepare synthesis reports every two years starting in  2020 on specific adaptation themes, 
focusing on relevant lessons learned and good practices in developing country Parties;  
14.  Recalls  that the global stocktake will review the overall progress made in 
achieving the global goal on adaptation and acknowledges  that adaptation efforts contribute 
to this objective;  
III. Methodologies for assessing adaptation needs with a view to 
assisting developing countries without placing undue burden 
on them  
15. Requests  the Adaptation Committee, in collaboration with the Least Develo ped 
Countries Expert Group, partner organizations of the Nairobi work programme , users and 
developers of relevant methodologies, including academia and the private sector , to 
develop by June 2020 and to regularly update an inventory of relevant methodologi es for 
assessing adaptation needs, including needs related to action, finance, capacity -building and 
technological support  in the context of national adaptation planning and implementation , 
and to make the information available on the adaptation knowledge portal;3 
16. Invites  Parties and observer organizations to submit via the submission portal4 by 
February 2021 their views and information on the development and application of 
methodologies for assessing adaptation needs, including needs related to action, fin ance, 
capacity -building and technological support ; 
17. Requests  the Adaptation Committee, with the engagement of the Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change Working Group II, as appropriate, to prepare, drawing on the 
inventory referred to in paragraph 15 ab ove and the submissions referred to in paragraph 16 
above, a technical paper on methodologies for assessing adaptation needs and their 
                                                           
 3 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/NWPStaging/Pages/Home.aspx . 
 4  https://unfccc.int/submissions_and_statement s.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
32  application, as well as on the related gaps, good practices, lessons learned and guidelines, 
for consideration and furthe r guidance by the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and 
Technological Advice at its fifty -seventh session (November 2022) in the context of its 
consideration of the report of the Adaptation Committee;  
18. Invites  all relevant entities to further improve the appl icability of existing 
methodologies and tools for assessing adaptation needs related to action, finance, capacity -
building and technological support;  
19. Also invites  the World Meteorological Organization, through its Global Framework 
for Climate Services, wit h a view to facilitating the development and application of 
methodologies for assessing adaptation needs, to regularly inform the Subsidiary Body for 
Scientific and Technological Advice about its activities aimed at improving the availability 
and accessibi lity of comprehensive climate information, including observational data, and 
about how it facilitates the provision and dissemination of the most up -to-date climate 
model predictions and projections;  
20. Further invites  the Paris Committee on Capacity -building  and providers of capacity -
building support, as appropriate and in accordance with their mandates, while further 
enhancing capacity -building efforts, to facilitate the access to and implementation of 
methodologies for assessing the adaptation needs of deve loping country Parties in the 
context of providing support for building adapt ive capacity;  
IV. Methodologies for taking the necessary steps to facilitate the 
mobilization of support for adaptation in developing 
countries  
21. Invites  the Standing Committee on Finan ce, in line with its mandate and in 
collaboration with the Technology Executive Committee and the Paris Committee on 
Capacity -building, to consider, taking into account the recommendations of the Adaptation 
Committee and the Least Developed Countries Exper t Group,5 as well as relevant 
submissions from Parties and observer organizations, ways to facilitate the mobilization of 
support for adaptation in developing countries, in the context of the limit to the increase in 
the global average temperature referred  to in Article 2 of the Paris Agreement, and to 
include recommendations in its annual report;  
22. Also invites  Parties to further enhance their enabling environments, policy 
frameworks, institutions and national public financial management systems with a view to 
improving access to international public support, as appropriate, and to enhancing the 
involvement of the private sector;  
23. Urges developed country Parties and invites other Parties that provide resources on a 
voluntary basis, United Nations entities and other relevant organizations, as well as bilateral 
and multilateral agencies, to assist the least developed country Parties and other developing 
country Parties, drawing on the work of the Adaptation Committee, the Least Developed 
Countries Expert Group an d other relevant bodies, as appropriate, in building or 
strengthening their enabling environments, policy frameworks, institutions and national 
public financial management systems so as to mobilize support for adaptation, in particular 
capacity -building, i ncluding as part of the process to formulate and implement national 
adaptation plans;  
24. Invites  Parties to continue engaging in adaptation planning processes and the 
implementation of action, including the process to formulate and implement national 
adaptati on plans;  
25. Takes note  of the resources available through the operating entities of the Financial 
Mechanism for strengthening developing country Parties’ institutional capacity for 
programming their priority climate actions and for tracking and reporting cli mate finance;  
                                                           
 5 As footnote 1 above.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
 33 26. Invites  Parties and relevant actors to ensure, as appropriate, that steps are taken to 
identify and subsequently remove perverse incentives that could result in non -resilient 
investments and planning decisions;  
27. Requests  Parties to report on s upport provided and received in line with the 
reporting instruments and modalities being developed under the Paris Agreement;  
28. Invites the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism, in line with their 
mandates, to seek to ensure that the provision of fi nancial support to developing country 
Parties is balanced between adaptation and mitigation activities;  
29. Requests  the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Centre 
and Network to facilitate, in line with their mandates, the provision of support for 
technology development and transfer for adaptation in developing country Parties, 
promoting a balance  between adaptation and mitigation activities;  
30. Invites the Paris Committee on Capacity -building to enhance and facilitate the 
provision of support for capacity -building for adaptation in developing country Parties, 
promoting a balance between adaptation an d mitigation activities;  
31. Requests  the secretariat to include in the synthesis report prepared for the global 
stocktake called for in paragraph 23(b) of decision 19 /CMA.1 an assessment of the support 
needs for adaptation of developing country Parties drawin g on, inter alia, the most recent 
documents that may contain adaptation information, which may include adaptation 
communications, national adaptation plans, national communications, nationally 
determined contributions, other relevant reports prepared under  the transparency 
framework, reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and other relevant 
scientific bodies as well as the report referred to in paragraph 13 of decision 4 /CP.24;  
V. Methodologies for reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness 
of adaptation and support  
32. Notes  the constraints encountered by the Adaptation Committee and the Least 
Developed Countries Expert Group in developing methodologies, including the differences 
in national circumstances in relation to adaptation, the difficulty o f setting adaptation 
baselines and targets and the lack of common metrics for measuring progress on adaptation;  
33. Also notes  that the current state of knowledge is not sufficient to address the 
mandate6 and requires time and effort to advance;  
34. Invites  Partie s, academia and other relevant stakeholders to undertake further 
technical work, building on the existing work of the Adaptation Committee and the Least 
Developed Countries Expert Group, in collaboration with the Standing Committee on 
Finance, and taking i nto consideration ongoing relevant work under and outside the 
Convention, on developing methodologies for reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of 
adaptation and support;  
35. Also invites  the Adaptation Committee and the Least Developed Countries Expert 
Group, in collaboration with the Standing Committee on Finance, and relevant experts to 
contribute to the technical work referred to in paragraph 34 above by continuing to compile 
existing methodologies for reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of adaptation and 
support;  
36. Further invites  Parties, United Nations entities and other relevant organizations, as 
well as bilateral and multilateral agencies, to submit by April 2020 to the Adaptati on 
Committee and the Least Developed Countries Expert Group information on gaps, 
challenges, opportunities and options associated with methodologies for reviewing the 
adequacy and effectiveness of adaptation and support, including in the areas of adaptatio n 
needs, plans and strategies; enabling environments and policy frameworks; frameworks 
used for assessing the effectiveness of adaptation efforts; efforts and systems to monitor 
and evaluate the effectiveness of adaptation efforts; support through all inst ruments and 
                                                           
 6 Decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 45(b).  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
34  channels, including domestic, international, public and private sources and progress 
towards the implementation and achievement of adaptation goals, plans and strategies;  
37. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to b e undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 9, 11, 13 and 31 above;  
38. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources . 
26th plenary meeting  
15 December 20 18 
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
 35 Decision 1 2/CMA.1  
  Identification of the information to be provided by Parties in 
accordance with Article 9, paragraph 5, of the Paris 
Agreement  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
Recalling Articles 4 and 11 of the Convention,  
Also recalling Article 9, paragraphs 1 –5, of the Paris Agreement,  
Further recalling  Articles 3, 4, 7, 10, 11 and 14 of the Paris Agreement,  
Recalling decisions 3/CP.19, 1/CP.21, 13/CP.22 and 1 2/CP.23,  
Underscoring  the need for continued and enhanced international support for the 
implementation of the Paris Agreement,  
1. Recognizes  the importance of predictability and clarity of information on financial 
support for the implementation of the Paris Agreement ; 
2. Reiterates that developed country Parties shall biennially communicate indicative 
quantitative and qualitative information rela ted to Article 9, paragraphs 1 and 3, of the Paris 
Agreement, as applicable, including, as available, projected levels of public financial 
resources to be provided to developing country Parties , and that o ther Parties providing 
resources are encouraged to communicate biennially such information on a voluntary basis ;  
3. Underlines  the importance of Article 9, paragraphs 1 and 3, of the Paris Agreement 
on this matter;  
4. Requests  developed country Parties to submit the biennial communications referred 
to in paragr aph 2 above and as specified in the annex starting in 2020;  
5. Encourages  other Parties providing resources to communicate biennially, as referred 
to in paragraph 2 above, on a voluntary basis;  
6. Requests  the secretariat to establish a dedicated online portal for posting and 
recording the biennial communications;  
7. Also requests  the secretariat to prepare a compilation and synthesis of the 
information included in the biennial communications, referred to in paragraph 2 above, 
starting in 2021, and to inform the g lobal stocktake;  
8. Further requests  the secretariat to organize biennial in -session workshops beginning 
the year after the submission of the first biennial communications referred to in paragraph 2 
above, and to prepare a summary report on each workshop;  
9. Decides to consider the compilations and syntheses referred to in paragraph 7 above 
and the summary report s on the in -session workshops referred to in paragraph 8 above 
starting at its fourth session (November 2021);  
10. Also decides  to convene a biennial high -level ministerial dialogue on climate finance 
beginning in 2021, to be informed, inter alia, by the summary reports on the in -session 
workshops referred to in paragraph 8 above and the biennial communications referred to in 
paragraph 2 above;  
11. Requests  the President of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Paris Agreement to summarize the deliberations of the dialogue referred to in 
paragraph 10 above for consideration by the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeti ng of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its succeeding session;  
12. Invites  the Conference of the Parties to consider the compilation s and syntheses and 
the summary reports on the in -session workshops referred to in paragraphs 7 and 8 above, 
respectively;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
36  13. Decides  to consider updating the types of information contained in the annex at its 
sixth session (2023) on the basis of Parties’  experience and lessons learned in the 
preparation of their biennial communications of indicative quantitative and qualitative 
information;  
14. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat pursuant to the provisions contained in paragraphs 6 –8 and 10 above;  
15. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this deci sion be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.1  
 37 Annex   
  Types of information to be provided by Parties in accordance 
with Article 9, paragraph 5, of the Paris Agreement  
 Developed country Parties shall biennially communicate indicative quantitative and 
qualitative information related to Article 9, paragraphs 1 and 3, of the Paris Agreement, as 
applicable, including, as available, projected levels of public financial resources to be 
provided to developing  country Parties. Other Parties providing resources are encouraged to 
communicate biennially such information on a voluntary basis. This should include:  
(a) Enhanced information to increase clarity on the projected levels of public 
financial resources to be pr ovided to developing countries, as available ; 
(b) Indicative quantitative and qualitative information on programmes, including 
projected levels, channels and instruments, as available ; 
(c) Information on policies and priorities, including regions and geography, 
recipient countries, beneficiaries, targeted groups, sectors and gender responsiveness ; 
(d) Information on purposes and types of support: mitigation, adaptation, cross -
cutting activities, technology transfer and capacity -building ; 
(e) Information on the factors that  providers of climate finance look for in 
evaluating proposals, in order to help to inform developing countries ; 
(f) An indication of new and additional resources to be provided, and how it 
determines such resources as  being  new and additional ; 
(g) Information on national circumstances and limitations relevant to the 
provision of ex ante information ; 
(h) Information on relevant methodologies and assumptions used to project 
levels of climate finance ; 
(i) Information on challenges and barriers encountered in the past, lesson s 
learned and measures taken to overcome them ; 
(j) Information on how Parties are aiming to ensure a balance between 
adaptation and mitigation, taking into account the country -driven strategies and the needs 
and priorities of developing country Parties, especi ally those that are particularly vulnerable 
to the adverse effects of climate change and have significant capacity constraints, such as 
the least developed countries and small island developing States, considering the need for 
public and grant -based resour ces for adaptation ; 
(k) Information on action and plans to mobilize additional climate finance as part 
of the global effort to mobilize climate finance from a wide variety of sources, including on 
the relationship between the public interventions to be used an d the private finance 
mobilized ; 
(l) Information on how financial support effectively addresses the needs and 
priorities of developing country Parties and supports country -driven strategies ; 
(m) Information on how support provided and mobilized is targeted at help ing 
developing countries in their efforts to meet the long -term goals of the Paris Agreement, 
including by assisting them in efforts to make finance flows consistent with a pathway 
towards low greenhouse gas emissions and climate -resilient development ; 
(n) Information on efforts to integrate climate change considerations, including 
resilience, into their development support ; 
(o) Information on how support to be provided to developing country Parties 
enhances their capacities.  
26th plenary meeting  
15 December 2018  
     
GE.19 -03302(E)  

Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting  
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
  Report of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  on the  
third  part of its first session , held in Katowice  from  
2 to 15 Dece mber  2018 
 Addendum  
Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
Contents  
  Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties  serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
Decision   Page 
  13/CMA.1  Matters relating to the Adaptation Fund  ................................ ................................ ....  2 
  14/CMA.1  Setting a new collective quantified goal on finance in accordance with  
decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 53  ................................ ................................ .................   3 
  15/CMA.1  Technology framework under Article 10, paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreement  .......  4 
  16/CMA.1  Scope of and modalities for the periodic assessment referred to in paragraph 69 of  
decision 1/CP.21  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........   11 
  17/CMA.1  Ways of enhancing the implementation of education, training, public awareness,  
public participation and public access to information so as to enhance actions under  
the Paris Agreement  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...  15 
  18/CMA.1  Modalities, procedures and guidelines  for the transparency framework for action and 
support referred to in Article 13 of the Paris Agreement  ................................ ...........   18 
  19/CMA.1  Matters relating to Article 14 of the Paris Agreement and paragraphs 99 –101 of decision 
1/CP.21  ................................ ................................ ................................ ......................   53 
  20/CMA.1  Modalities and procedures for the effective operation of the committee to facilitate 
implementation and promote compliance referred to in Article 15, paragraph 2, of  
the Paris Agreement  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...  59 
  Resolution  
  3/CMA.1  Expression of gratitude to the Government of the Republic of Poland  and  
the people of the city of Katowice  ................................ ................................ .............   65 
 United Nations  FCCC /PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
 
 
 
  
Distr.: General  
19 March 2019  
 
Original: English  
FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
2  Decision 13/CMA.1  
  Matters relating to the Adaptation Fund   
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
1. Decides that the Adaptation Fund shall serve the Paris Agreement under the guidance 
of, and be accountable to, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties 
to the Paris Agreement  with respect to all matters relating to the Paris Agreement , effective 
1 January 2019 , subject to the decision on this matter made by the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol ; 
2. Recommends  that the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties 
to the Kyoto Protocol decide that the Adaptation Fund will continue to be financed by the 
activities under Articles 6, 12 and 17 of the Kyoto Protocol;  
3. Also r ecommends  to the Confere nce of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties 
to the Kyoto Protocol that the Adaptation Fund shall exclusively serve the Paris Agreement 
once the share of proceeds under Article 6, paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreement becomes 
available;  
4. Invites  the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol  to ensure that developing country Parties and developed country Parties that are 
Parties to the Paris Agreement are eligible for membership on the Adaptation Fund Boar d;  
5. Decides  that, when the Adaptation Fund serves the Paris Agreement , it shall be 
financed from the share of proceeds from the mechanism esta blished by Article 6, 
paragraph  4, of the Paris Agreement and from  a variety of voluntary public and private 
sourc es; 
6. Invites  the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol  to request  the Adaptation Fund Board to consider the rules of procedure of the Board, 
the arrangements of the Adaptation Fund with respect to the Paris Ag reement and the 
implications of the Adaptation Fund receiving the share of proceeds from activities under 
Articles 6, 12 and 17 of the Kyoto Protocol when the Adaptation Fund serves the Paris 
Agreement,  with a view to forwarding recommendations to the Conf erence of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement for consideration at its second 
session ( December  2019).  
26th plenary meeting  
15 December 2018  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
 3 Decision 1 4/CMA.1  
  Setting a new collective quantified goal on finance in 
accordance with decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 53  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
Recalling decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 53,  
1. Decides  to initiate at its third session  (November 2020) , in accordance with Article 9 , 
paragraph 3, of the Paris Agreement, deliberations on setting a new collective quantified goal 
from a floor of USD  100 billion per year in the context of meaningful mitigation actions  and 
transparency of implementation and taking into account the needs and priorities of 
developing countries ; 
2. Agrees  to consider, in its deliberations referred to in paragraph 1 abo ve, the aim 
to strengthen  the global response to the threat of climate change in the context of sustainable 
development and efforts to eradicate poverty, including by making finance flows consistent 
with a pathway towards low greenhouse gas emissions and c limate -resilient development.  
26th plenary meeting  
15 December 2018  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
4  Decision 1 5/CMA.1  
  Technology framework under Article  10, paragraph 4, of the 
Paris Agreement  
The Conference of the Parties  serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
 Recalling  Article 10, paragraph 1 , of the Paris Agreement,  regarding the long -term 
vision for technology development and t ransfer,  
 Also recalling Article 10 , paragraph s 3 and 4, of the Paris Agreement,   
 Further recalling decision 1/CP.21,  paragraphs 67 and 68,  
 Recognizing the need  to ensure that the operationalization of  the technology 
framework undertaken by the Technology Mechanism to support the achievement of the Paris 
Agreeme nt is consistent with  the long-term vision for tech nology development and transfer  
and Article 2  of the Paris Agreement , 
 Noting with appreciation  the work undertaken by the Subsidiary Body for Scientific 
and Technological Advice in elaborating the technology framework in accordance with 
decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 67,  
1. Adopts  the technology framework under Article 10 , paragraph 4 , of the Paris 
Agreement as elaborated in th e annex;  
2. Decides  that the Technology Executive Committee  and the Climate Technology 
Centre and Network, consistent ly with their respective functions, mandates and modalities 
of work, shall implement the technology framework in close collaboration under the  guidance 
of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement;  
3. Requests  the Technology Executive Committee  and the Climate Technology Centre 
and Network:  
(a) To incorporate the guidance contained in the technology framework into their 
respective workplan s and programme s of work, which should also include methods for  the 
monitoring and evaluation  of their activities ; 
(b) To include information in their joint annual report  for 2019  on how they 
incorporate d the guidance contained in the technology framework into their respective 
workplan s and programme s of work as referred to in paragraph 3(a) above ; 
4. Takes note of the recommendation of the Technology Executive Committee and the 
Climate Technology Centre and Network  to prepare and submit their  joint annual report to 
both the Conference of the Parties and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement ;1  
5. Requests the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Tech nology Centre 
and Network to report on the progress of their work and challenges and lessons learned in 
implementing the technology framework in their joint annual reports;  
6. Reiterates  the importance of the support, including financial support, that shall b e 
provided to developi ng country Parties for strengthening cooperative action on technology 
development and transfer at different stages of the technology cycle , and agrees  that the 
technology framework can facilitate the strengthening of such support ; 
7. Decides  that the outcome of and/or recommendations resulting from  the periodic 
assessment referred to in decision 1/CP.21 , paragraph 69, shall be  considered when updating 
the technology framework;  
8. Request s the secretariat to facilitate the implementation o f the technology framework;  
                                                           
 1 FCCC/SB/2017/3, paragraph 43.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
 5 9. Also requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
6  Annex  
Technology framework under Article 10, paragraph 4, of the 
Paris Agreement  
I. Purpose  
1. The purpose of the technology framework under the Paris Agreement is to provide 
overarching guidance to the work of the Technology Mechanism in promoting and 
facilitating enhanced action on technology development and transfer in order to support the  
implementation of the Paris Agreement in pursuit of the long -term vision referred to in its 
Article 10, paragraph 1. The long -term vision for technology development and transfer 
shared by Parties relates to the importance of fully realizing technology dev elopment and 
transfer in order to improve resilience to climate change and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.  
2. The technology framework can play a strategic role in improving the effectiveness 
and efficiency of the work of the Technology Mechanism, which cons ists of the Technology 
Executive Committee (TEC) and the Climate Technology Centre and Network (CTCN), by 
addressing the transformational changes envisioned in the Paris Agreement and the long -
term vision for technology development and transfer.  
II. Principles  
3. The principles of the technology framework, which are coherence, inclusiveness, 
results -oriented approach, transformational approach and transparency, should guide the 
Technology Mechanism in implementing the Paris Agreement , as follows : 
(a) Align with the lo ng-term vision for technology development and transfer and 
other provisions of the Paris Agreement, national plans and strategies under the Convention 
and actions undertaken by relevant institutions in the international climate regime and beyond;  
(b) Be designed and implemented in a manner that facilitates the active 
participation of all relevant stakeholders and takes into account sustainable development, 
gender, the special circumstances of the least developed countries and small island 
developing State s, and the enhancement of indigenous capacities and endogenous 
technologies;  
(c) Be results -oriented in terms of output, outcome and impact;  
(d) Address the transformational changes envisioned in the Paris Agreement;  
(e) Be designed and implemented in a manner that en hances the transparency of 
the results, costs and process, such as through planning, resource management and reporting 
on activities and support.  
III. Key themes  
4. The following key themes for the technology framework represent focused areas of 
action to be under taken under the framework:  
(a) Innovation;  
(b) Implementation;  
(c) Enabling environment and capacity -building;  
(d) Collaboration and stakeholder engagement;  
(e) Support.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
 7 A. Innovation  
5. As stipulated in Article 10, paragraph 5, of the Paris Agreement, accelerating, 
encouraging a nd enabling innovation is critical for an effective, long -term global response to 
climate change and promoting economic growth and sustainable development. To achieve 
the purpose and goals of the Paris Agreement, there is a pressing need to accelerate and 
strengthen technological innovation so that it can deliver environmentally and socially sound, 
cost-effective and better -performing climate technologies on a larger and more widespread 
scale.  
6. Actions and activities under this key theme should therefore ac celerate and scale up 
innovation at different stages of the technology cycle, addressing both adaptation and 
mitigation in a balanced manner to help countries to build resilience and reduce their 
emissions, and be undertaken in a manner that enhances the e ffective participation of 
developing country Parties, fosters sustainable development and ensures gender 
responsiveness.  
7. Fostering innovation could be done through new collaborative approaches to climate 
technology research, development and demonstration ( RD&D); the creation and promotion 
of relevant enabling policy to incentivize and nurture a supportive environment for 
innovation; and the active engagement of the private sector and closer collaboration between 
the public and private sector.  
8. Actions and ac tivities  in this area of work include:  
(a) Supporting countries in incentivizing innovation by improving the policy 
environments, strategies, legal and regulatory frameworks , and institutional arrangements for 
establishing and/or strengthening their national systems of innovation;  
(b) Providing information and facilitating the sharing of information on 
international technology RD&D partnership s and initiatives, good practices and lessons 
learned from countries’ climate technology RD&D policies and activities;  
(c) Promoting the development, deployment and dissemination of existing 
innovative technologies and accelerating the scale -up and diffusion of emerging climate  
technologies;  
(d) Supporting countries in develop ing long-term technological transition 
pathways towards the widespread uptake of climate technologies in the context of climate 
resilience and low greenhouse gas emission development ;  
(e) Promoting collaboration with international technology RD&D partnerships 
and initiatives to stimulate climate technology RD&D;  
(f) Supporting countries in initiating joint climate technology RD&D activities;  
(g) Identifying ways to increase the effective participation of developing country 
Parties in collaborative approaches to RD&D;  
(h) Promoting the engagement of the privat e sector in the development of new and 
innovative climate technologies, including through:  
(i) Raising awareness of future market opportunities in climate technology 
innovation;  
(ii) Identifying ways to incentivize their participation;  
(i) Promoting partnerships betwee n the public and private sector in the 
development and transfer of climate technologies.  
B. Implementation  
9. The Paris Agreement highlights the importance of technology for the implementation 
of mitigation and adaptation actions under the Agreement. The Technol ogy Mechanism 
should facilitate and promote enhanced action on technology to help countries to achieve the FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
8  purpose and goals of the Paris Agreement, while at the same time recognizing the importance 
of rapidly accelerating the transformational changes towa rds climate resilience and low 
greenhouse gas emission development.  
10. Actions and activities under this key theme should therefore facilitate the 
implementation of collaborative technology development and transfer, build on the past and 
ongoing work of the Technology Mechanism and take into account the role of North –South, 
South –South, triangular and regional collaboration in facilitating implementation.  
11. Actions and activities under this key theme should also facilitate the implementation 
of mitigation and adaptation action identified using planning tools and processes such as 
nationally determined contributions, long -term low greenhouse gas emission development 
strategies, technology needs assessments (TNAs), national adaptation plans, technology road 
maps and other relevant policies, and facilitate overcoming challenges by implementing such 
action, as appropriate.  
12. Actions and activities in this area of work include:  
(a) Facilitating the undertaking and updating of TNAs, as well as enhancing the 
implementation o f their results, particularly technology action plans and project ideas, and 
capacity -building related to TNAs;  
(b) Promoting the link or alignment of TNAs with nationally determined 
contributions and national adaptation plans in order to increase coherence be tween the 
implementation of those national plans with national strategies to achieve climate -resilient 
and low -emission development;  
(c) Reviewing the TNA guidelines and updating them as necessary with a view to 
TNAs leading to plans and implementation that ar e aligned with the transformational changes 
envisioned in the Paris Agreement;  
(d) Identifying and developing recommendations on approaches, tools and means, 
as appropriate, for the assessment of  the technologies that are ready to transfer;  
(e) Identifying and dev eloping recommendations for the enhancement of enabling 
environments for and the  addressing of barriers to the development and transfer of socially 
and environmentally sound technologies.  
C. Enabling environment and capacity -building  
13. In the context of technol ogy development and transfer, countries may face various 
challenges. Creating and enhancing enabling environments for the development and transfer 
of socially and environmentally sound technologies should consider the challenges faced by 
countries, and the  different needs of the countries in overcoming such challenges.  
14. Capacity -building for technology development and transfer is a cross -cutting and 
comprehensive issue. Although initiatives and activities on capacity -building for technology 
development and t ransfer are already being undertaken, further measures in this area are 
needed to develop, strengthen and enhance countries’ capabilities to take effective climate 
action in the context of the Paris Agreement.  
15. Actions and activities under this key theme sh ould therefore foster the creation and 
enhancement of an enabling environment, including policy and regulatory environments for 
technology development and transfer, and strengthen the capacity of countries to effectively 
address various challenges .  
16. Actions and activities in this area of work include:  
(a) Enhancing public awareness on climate technology development and transfer;  
(b) Facilitating countries in enhancing an investment -friendly environment, 
including national strategies and action plans, a policy  environment, legal and regulatory 
frameworks and other institutional arrangements;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
 9 (c) Facilitating countries in enhancing an enabling environment to promote 
endogenous and gender -responsive technologies for mitigation and adaptation actions;  
(d) Assisting count ries in develop ing and implementing policies for enabling 
environments to incentivize  the private and public sector to fully realiz e the development and 
transfer of climate technologies ;  
(e) Assisting governments in playing a key role in fostering private sec tor 
involvement by designing and implementing policies, regulations and standards that create 
enabling environments and favourable market conditions for climate technologies;  
(f) Facilitating information -sharing and networking among relevant organizations 
and institutions to create synergies and to enable the exchange among relevant players of best 
practices, experience and knowledge on technology development and transfer;  
(g) Formulating and analysing information on capacity -building activities at 
different stage s of the technology cycle;  
(h) Catalysing the development and enhancement of endogenous capacities for 
climate -related technologies and harnessing indigenous knowledge;  
(i) Enhancing collaboration with existing capacity -building organizations and 
institutions, inc luding those under the Convention, to create synergies in a manner that 
enhances efficiency and avoids duplication of work;  
(j) Enhancing the capacity of national designated entities (NDEs) of all Parties , 
especially those in developing countries, to fulfil th eir roles;  
(k) Enhancing the capacities of Parties to plan, monitor and achieve technological 
transformation in accordance with the purpose and goals of the Paris Agreement.  
D. Collaboration and stakeholder engagement  
17. Collaboration with and engagement of stakehol ders will enhance interaction between 
those involved in the development and transfer of climate technology and help to share 
knowledge and mobilize support. In this context, stakeholders will provide important input 
to the work of the Technology Mechanism.   
18. Therefore, the Technology Mechanism shall work in an open and inclusive, including 
gender -responsive, manner whereby stakeholders are invited to participate and actively 
engage. Collaboration with and engagement of stakeholders should take place at diffe rent 
stages of the technology cycle.  
19. Enhanced engagement of stakeholders at the local, regional, national and global level 
will be beneficial for the Technology Mechanism. Further, activities for cooperation on 
technology development and transfer across re levant organizations, institutions and 
initiatives should be harmonized and synergized to avoid duplication and ensure consistency 
and coherence.  
20. Actions and activities in this area of work include:  
(a) Enhancing engagement and collaboration with relevant stak eholders, including 
local communities and authorities, national planners, the private sector and civil society 
organizations , in the planning and implementation of Technology Mechanism activities;  
(b) Enhancing engagement and collaboration with the private sector, on a 
voluntary basis, to leverage expertise, experience and knowledge regarding effective 
enabling environments that support the implementation of the Paris Agreement ; 
(c) Enhancing engagement bet ween NDEs and relevant stakeholders, including by 
providing guidance and information;  
(d) Enhancing collaboration and synergy with relevant international organizations, 
institutions and initiatives, including academia and the scientific community, to leverage  their 
specific expertise, experience, knowledge and information, particularly on new and 
innovative technologies.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
10  E. Support  
21. Article 10, paragraph 6, of the Paris Agreement states that support, including financial 
support, shall be provided to developing cou ntry Parties for the implementation of that 
Article, including for strengthening cooperative action on technology development and 
transfer at different stages of the technology cycle, with a view to achieving a balance 
between support for mitigation and ad aptation.  
22. The understanding of support under this key theme is broader than just financial 
support, as it may include all aspects of support for the implementation of Article 10 of the 
Paris Agreement. The support should be provided for all key themes of t he technology 
framework, taking into account the gender perspective and endogenous and indigenous 
aspects.  
23. The provision and mobilization of various types of support coming from a wide 
variety of sources are crucial to implementing Article 10 of the Paris Agreement and can 
enhance cooperative action on technology development and transfer.  
24. Monitoring and evalua tion of the Technology Mechanism can enhance the 
effectiveness of the support provided.   
25. Actions and activities in this area of work include:  
(a) Enhancing the collaboration of the Technology Mechanism with the Financial 
Mechanism for enhanced support for tech nology development and transfer;  
(b) Identifying and promoting innovative finance and investment at different 
stages of the technology cycle;  
(c) Providing enhanced technical support to developing country Parties, in a 
country -driven manner, and facilitating their  access to financing for innovation, including for 
RD&D, enabling environments and capacity -building, developing and implementing the 
results of TNAs, and engagement and collaboration with stakeholders, including 
organizational and institutional support;  
(d) Enhancing the mobilization of various types of support, including pro bono 
and in -kind support, from various sources for the implementation of actions and activities 
under each key theme  of the technology framework;  
(e) Developing and/or enhancing a system for monitoring and tracking of actions 
and activities undertaken, and support received, by the Technology Mechanism to implement 
the technology framework, with a view to such information may be also contribut ing to the 
enhanced transparency framework referred t o in Article 13 and the global stocktake referred 
to in Article 14 of the Paris Agreement.  
26th plenary meeting  
15 December 2018  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
 11 Decision 1 6/CMA.1  
Scope of and modalities for the periodic assessment referred 
to in paragraph 69 of decision 1/CP.21  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
 Recalling  decision 1/CP.21, in particular paragraph 69, and decision 1/CP.23,  
1. Adopts the scope of and modalities for the periodic assessment of the effectiveness 
and adequacy of the support provided to the Technology Mechanism in supporting the 
implementation of th e Paris Agreement on matters relating to technology development and 
transfer, in accordance with decision 1/CP.21, as contained in the annex;  
2. Decides  that the periodic assessment referred to in paragraph 1 above should be 
undertaken in a transparent, inclu sive and participatory manner;  
3. Also d ecides  to initiate the first periodic assessment referred to in paragraph 1 above 
at its fourth session (November 2021) in accordance with the scope and modalities as 
contained in the annex, or as these may be subsequen tly amended, with a view to completing 
the first periodic assessment at its fifth session (November 2022);  
4. Further decides that the outcomes of the periodic assessment referred to in 
paragraph  1 above should serve as an input to the global stocktake referr ed to in Article 14 
of the Paris Agreement;  
5. Decides  that the outcome of the periodic assessment should guide improved 
effectiveness and enhanced support to the Technology Mechanism in supporting the 
implementation of the Paris Agreement;  
6. Requests  the Subs idiary Body for Implementation to initiate, at its fifty -first session 
(December  2019), consideration of the alignment between processes pertaining to the review 
of the Climate Technology Centre and Network1 and the periodic assessment referred to in 
parag raph 1 above with a view to recommending a draft decision for consideration and 
adoption by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement at its third session (November 2020);  
7. Also requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
                                                           
 1 In accordance with decisions 2/CP.17, 14/CP.18 and 12/CP.24.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
12  Annex  
Scope of and modalities for the periodic assessment referred 
to in paragraph 69 of decision 1/CP.21  
I. Scope  
1. The mandate is to undertake a periodic assessment of the effectiveness and adequacy 
of the support provided to the Technology Mechanism in supporting the implementation of 
the Paris Agreement on matters relating to technology development and transfer (hereinafter 
referred to as the periodic assessment).1 The scope has two elements:2 
(a) The effectiveness of the Technology Mechanism in supporting the 
impleme ntation of the Paris Agreement on matters relating to technology development and 
transfer;  
(b) The adequacy of support provided to the Technology Mechanism in supporting 
the implementation of the Paris Agreement on matters relating to technology development 
and transfer.  
A. Effectiveness of the Technology Mechanism  
2. On the effectiveness of the Technology Mechanism in supporting the implementation 
of the Paris Agreement, as guided by the technology framework,3 the scope may include the 
assessment of the impact, outp uts and outcomes of the Technology Mechanism, in particular, 
how it has:   
(a) Facilitated the transformational changes envisioned in the Paris Agreement;  
(b) Contributed to the achievement of the long -term vision referred to in Article  10, 
paragraph 1, of the Pari s Agreement;  
(c) Contributed to strengthening cooperative action on technology development 
and transfer;  
(d) Enhanced the implementation of the technology elements of nationally 
determined contributions and technology needs assessments;  
(e) Resulted in quantitative im pacts  through technical assistance, including 
potential emission reductions, the number of technology solutions delivered , and investments 
leveraged;  
(f) Undertaken its work in a cost -effective and efficient manner;  
(g) Achieved success in terms of how the bodies of the Technology Mechanism 
have implemented their workplans;  
(h) Overcome challenges;  
(i) Identified opportunities for improvement;  
(j) Collaborated with other stakeholders in supporting the implementation of the 
Paris Agreement on matters relating to technology deve lopment and transfer;  
(k) Responded to the overarching guidance provided by the technology framework 
referred to in Article 10 of the Paris Agreement, including aligning its work with the themes 
of the technology framework;  
                                                           
 1 Decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 69.  
 2 See document FCCC/SBI/2016/8, paragraph 94.  
 3 Decision 15/CMA.1.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
 13 (l) Responded to existing mandates under  the Paris Agreement and to guidance 
from Parties.  
3. To undertake the assessment of effectiveness referred to in paragraph 2 above, the 
work of the Technology Mechanism in supporting the implementation of the Paris 
Agreement on matters relating to cooperativ e action on technology development and transfer 
to be assessed may include:  
(a) The work of the Technology Executive Committee (TEC) in supporting the 
implementation of the Paris Agreement on matters relating to technology development and 
transfer;  
(b) The work o f the Climate Technology Centre and Network (CTCN) in 
supporting the implementation of the Paris Agreement on matters relating to technology 
development and transfer, including in relation to:  
(i) The implementation of its three core services: responding t o requests from 
developing countries; fostering collaboration and sharing of information; and 
strengthening networks, partnerships and capacity -building;  
(ii) Its institutional arrangements;  
(c) The collaboration between the TEC and the CTCN, and the linkages between 
these bodies and institutional arrangements under the Paris Agreement;  
(d) The work on technology needs assessments and the implementation of 
technology action plans to support the implementation of the Paris Agreement on matters 
relating to technology  development and transfer.  
B. Adequacy of the support provided to the Technology Mechanism  
4. On the adequacy of the support provided to the Technology Mechanism4 in supporting 
the implementation of the Paris Agreement on matters relating to technology developm ent 
and transfer, the scope may include, but is not limited to, the assessment of:  
(a) The recipients of the support provided:  
(i) The TEC;  
(ii) The CTCN, including the national designated entities;  
(b) The sources of support provided;  
(c) The types of support provided;  
(d) How the support provided was used, taking into account actions at the different 
stages of the technology cycle:  
(i) Mitigation actions;  
(ii) Adaptation actions;  
(iii) Cross -cutting actions;  
(e) The level of support provided and whether it has changed  over time;  
(f) The extent to which the support has met the budgets and plans of the 
Technology Mechanism.  
II. Modalities  
5. The scope and modalities for the periodic assessment of the effectiveness and 
adequacy of the support provided to the Technology Mechanism sh ould follow international 
                                                           
 4 In line with decision 2/CP.17, paragraphs 139 –141. FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
14  best practices for conducting assessments. These best practices include the following five 
evaluation criteria categories: relevance, effectiveness, efficiency, impact and sustainability.  
6. The periodic assessment is undertaken by the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement (CMA). The CMA:  
(a) Initiates the periodic assessment in accordance with paragraph 10 below;  
(b) Provides guidance to the secretariat and requests it to prepare interim and final 
reports on the periodic assessment;  
(c) Finalizes the periodic assessment, with possible outputs in accordance with 
paragraph 11 below.  
7. The Subsidiary Body for Implementation (SBI) supports the CMA by:  
(a) Considering the interim report and providing guidanc e to the secretariat for 
preparing the final report. The SBI does this in its first sessional period in the year after that 
in which the CMA initiated the assessment;  
(b) Preparing draft recommendations for consideration and adoption by the CMA , 
as appropriat e, based on a consideration of the final report.  
8. The periodic assessment is both qualitative and quantitative:  
(a) Qualitative elements may include reviewing existing reports and gathering 
information from stakeholders;  
(b) Quantitative elements may include collecting data and undertaking statistical 
analysis.  
9. The sources of information for the periodic assessment include, but are not limited to:  
(a) The technology framework;  
(b) The joint annual reports of the TEC and the CTCN to the CMA;  
(c) Other UNFCCC reporting docu ments and processes relevant to the 
implementation of the Paris Agreement on matters relating to technology development and 
transfer;  
(d) Information provided by relevant stakeholders;  
(e) Documents and outcomes resulting from the independent reviews of the CTCN;  
(f) Where relevant, reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.  
10. The periodic assessment:  
(a) Is undertaken every five years;  
(b) Takes one year or less to complete.  
11. The outputs of the periodic assessment include, as appropriate:  
(a) A report to the CMA thr ough the SBI;  
(b) Recommendations of the CMA on updating the technology framework.  
26th plenary meeting  
15 December 2018FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
 15 Decision 1 7/CMA.1  
  Ways of enhancing the implementation of education, 
training, public awareness, public participation and public 
access to information so as to enhance actions under the Paris 
Agreement  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting  of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
Recalling Article  12 of the Paris Agreement, which provides that Parties shall 
cooperate in taking measures, as appropriate, to enhance climate change education, training, 
public awareness, public participation and p ublic access to information,  
Reaffirming the importance of all elements of Article 6 of the Convention and of 
Article 12 of the Paris Agreement for the implementation of the ultimate objective of the 
Convention and the Paris Agreement, respectively,  
Recogn izing  the key role that Action for Climate Empowerment can play at all stages 
and levels of the implementation of the Paris Agreement,  
Recalling decision 15/CP.18, which established the Doha work programme on 
Article  6 of the Convention and defined key are as of work and activities for the 
implementation of Article 6 of the Convention,  
Also recalling  decision 17/CP.22, in which it was decided that efforts related to the 
implementation of Article 6 of the Convention shall be referred to as Action for Climate  
Empowerment,  
Recognizing  that Action for Climate Empowerment plays a key role in promoting 
changes in lifestyles, attitudes and behaviours needed to foster low -emission, climate -
resilient and sustainable development,  
Reaffirming the key role that a broad range of stakeholders, inter alia national 
governments, regions as applicable, cities, education and cultural institutions, museums, the 
private sector, intergovernmental organizations, non -governmental organizations, 
international organizations, decision makers, scientists, the media, teachers, youth, women 
and indigenous peoples, play in ensuring Action for Climate Empowerment,  
Acknowledging  the importance of linkages between activities taken to support 
Article  6 of the Convention, Article 12 of the Paris  Agreement and the Sustainable 
Development Goals,  
1. Decides that efforts related to the implementation of Article 12 of the Paris Agreement 
will also be referred to as Action for Climate Empowerment;  
2. Invites  the Conference of the Parties, when reviewi ng the Doha work programme on 
Article 6 of the Convention in accordance with decision 15/CP.18, to also include efforts 
related to the implementation of Article 12 of the Paris Agreement;  
3. Decides  that the focal points nominated under Article 6 of the C onvention will also 
serve as focal points under Article 12 of the Paris Agreement and will be referred to as Action 
for Climate Empowerment focal points in the context of the Paris Agreement as well;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
16  4. Encourages  Parties that have not already designated an Action for Climate 
Empowerment focal point to do so and to provide the necessary institutional support for the 
focal point’s activities, as appropriate;  
5. Also encourages  Parties to continue to promote the systematic integration of gender -
sensitive an d participatory education, training, public awareness, public participation, public 
access to information, and regional and international cooperation into all mitigation and 
adaptation activities implemented under the Convention, as well as under the Paris  
Agreement, as appropriate, including into the processes of designing and implementing their 
nationally determined contributions, national adaptation plans, long-term low greenhouse gas 
emission development strategies  and climate policies;  
6. Invites  Parti es to develop and implement national strategies on Action for Climate 
Empowerment in relation to Article 12 of the Paris Agreement taking into account their 
national circumstances;  
7. Also invites  Parties and non -Party stakeholders to consider relevant act ivities that 
enhance Action for Climate Empowerment, as referred to in the reports on the Action for 
Climate Empowerment workshop1 held at the first part of the forty -eighth session of the 
Subsidiary Body for Implementation  and the Action for Climate Empowerment youth 
forum,2 when developing and implementing Action for Climate Empowerment, taking into 
consideration national circumstances;  
8. Encourages  Parties to include, as appropriate, information on how education, training, 
public awareness, public participation, public access to information, and regional and 
international cooperation are considered in the preparation and implementation of the actions 
under the Paris Agreement;  
9. Considers  that Parties and stakeholders may, as appropriate, take into account actions 
to enhance climate change education, training, public awareness, public participation, public 
access to information, and regional and international cooperation in the context of Article 14 
of the Paris Agreement;  
10. Encourages Parties  to foster public participation and collaborate with, inter alia, 
regional as applicable and local authorities, the scientific community, universities, the private 
sector, civil society organizations  and youth to scale up the implementation of Action for 
Climate Empowerment;  
11. Invites Parties, multilateral and bilateral institutions, private sector and other potential 
sources to support activities related to the implementation of Article 12 of the P aris 
Agreement;  
12. Requests  the secretariat:  
(a) To continue organizing, in collaboration with Parties and international 
organizations, training, workshops, webinars and other activities to exchange good practices 
and to build and strengthen existing skills and the capacity of the Action for Climate 
Empowerment national focal points and stakeholders;  
(b) To organize the 7th Dialogue on Action for Climate Empowerment in 2019 to 
advance the discussions on the final review of the Doha work programme and ways of 
enha ncing the implementation of education, training, public awareness, public participation, 
public access to information, and international and regional cooperation so as to also enhance 
actions under Article 12 of the Paris Agreement;  
(c) To continue organizing  awareness -raising campaigns and training activities to 
empower children and youth to support and lead climate action;  
(d) To continue collaborating with Parties, non -Party stakeholders and regional 
and international organizations with a view to catalysing the  implementation of Article 12 of 
the Paris Agreement;  
                                                           
 1 See https://unfccc.int/sites/default/files/resource/Action%20for%20Climate%20Empowerment % 
20Workshop%20outcomes.pdf .  
 2 See https://unfccc.int/sites/default/files/resource/180505_Outcomes%20AYF%20 -%20Final.pdf .  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
 17 13. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraph 12 above;  
14. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called fo r in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.   
26th plenary meeting  
15 December 2018  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
18  Decision 18/CMA.1  
Modalities, procedures and guidelines for the transparency 
framework for action and support referred to in Article 13 of 
the Paris Agreement  
 The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Partie s to the Paris 
Agreement , 
 Recalling  the Paris Agreement, adopted under the Convention, in particular Article 2, 
paragraph 2, and Article 13, including paragraphs 1, 14 and 15,  
 Also recalling  decision 1/CP.21,  
 Recognizing  that the Capacity -building Initi ative for Transparency, established 
pursuant to decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 84, will continue to support developing country 
Parties, upon request, to build their institutional and technical capacity, both pre - and post - 
2020,  
 Also recognizing  that flexibi lity for those developing country Parties that need it in 
the light of their capacities is reflected in the modalities, procedures and guidelines for the 
transparency of action and support,  
1. Adopts , pursuant to Article 13, paragraph 13, of the Paris Agreeme nt, the modalities, 
procedures and guidelines for the transparency framework for action and support (hereinafter 
referred to as the modalities, procedures and guidelines) contained in the annex;  
2. Requests the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological  Advice to undertake 
the first review and update, as appropriate, of the modalities, procedures and guidelines  no 
later than 2028 on the basis of experience in reporting, technical expert review and facilitative, 
multilateral consideration of progress, and  decides  that subsequent reviews and updates will 
be undertaken as  and when  the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties 
to the Paris Agreement determines them to be appropriate;  
3. Decides  that Parties shall submit their first biennial  transparency report and national 
inventory report, if submitted as a stand -alone report, in accordance  with the modalities, 
procedures and guidelines,  at the latest by 31 December 2024;  
4. Also decides  that the least developed country Parties and small islan d developing 
States may submit the information referred to in Article 13, paragraphs 7, 8, 9 and 10 , of the 
Paris Agreement at their discretion;  
5. Invites  Parties and, as appropriate, intergovernmental organizations to nominate 
technical experts with the relevant qualifications to the UNFCCC roster of experts as referred 
to in chapter VII.I of the annex;  
6. Requests  the secretariat , in addition to the actions specified in the modalities, 
procedures and guidelines , to: 
(a) Produce synthesis reports on Parties’ biennial transparency reports and 
national inventory reports;  
(b) Produce an annual report on the technical expert review;  
(c) Publish Parties’ biennial transparency reports and national inventory reports, 
if submitted as a stand -alone report, the technical expert review reports, and the records of 
Parties’ facilitative, multilateral consideration of progress on the UNFCCC website ; 
7. Recalls  that, in accordance with Article 13, paragraphs 14 and 15, of the Paris 
Agreement, support shall be provided to developing country Parties for the implementation 
of Article 13 and for the building of transparency -related capacity of developing co untry 
Parties on a continuous basis;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
 19 8. Urges  and requests  the Global Environment Facility, as an operating entity of the 
Financial Mechanism, throughout its replenishment cycles , to support developing country 
Parties in preparing their first and subsequent b iennial transparency reports;  
9. Encourages  the Global Environment Facility to consider options for improving the 
efficiency of the process for providing support for reporting under Article 13 of the Paris 
Agreement, in particular for addressing the challenge s in the application process, including 
by potentially providing an avenue for Parties to apply for funding for more than one report 
through the same application in each replenishment period;  
10. Urges  the Global Environment Facility and its implementing and executing agencies 
and encourages  the Global Environment Facility Council to consider options for improving 
the efficiency of the process for providing support for reporting under Article 13 of the Paris 
Agreement, including through better streamlining of the processes related to applications, 
implementation plans and signing of grant agreements;  
11. Requests  the Global Environment Facility to continue to support the operation of the 
Capacity -building Initiative for Transparency as a priority reporting -related  need;  
12. Also requests  the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice to develop, 
pursuant to the modalities, procedures and guidelines, for consideration and adoption by the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the  Paris Agreement at its 
third session (November 2020):  
(a) Common reporting tables for the electronic reporting of the information 
referred to in chapter II, and common tabular formats for the electronic reporting of the 
information referred to in chapters II I, V and VI , of the annex, taking into account the existing 
common tabular formats and common reporting formats;  
(b) Outlines of the biennial transparency report, national inventory document and 
technical expert review report, pursuant to the modalities, proc edures and guidelines 
contained in the annex;  
(c) A training programme for technical experts participating in the technical expert 
review;  
13. Invites  Parties to submit their views on the work referred to in paragraph 12 above via 
the submission portal1 by 31 Mar ch 2019;  
14. Notes  decision 1/CP.24, paragraphs 45 and 46, in which the Conference of the Parties  
decided that the technical annex referred to in decision 14/CP.19, paragraph 7, containing 
modalities for measuring, reporting and verifying  the activities referred to in decision 
1/CP.16, paragraph 70,  shall be submitted as an annex to the biennial transparency report to 
be submitted by Parties under Article 13 of the Paris Agreement, and that the technical 
analysis referred to in decision 14/CP.19, paragrap h 11, shall be carried out concurrently with 
the technical expert review under Article 13 of the Paris Agreement;  
15. Decides  that, subject to the extension of its term by the Conference of the Parties, as 
referred to in decision 11/CP.24, paragraph 1, the Con sultative Group of Experts referred to  
therein shall also serve the Paris Agreement, starting from 1 January 2019, to support the 
implementation of the enhanced transparency framework under Article  13 of the Paris 
Agreement by, inter alia:  
(a) Facilitating the  provision of technical advice and support to developing 
country Parties, as applicable, including for the preparation and submission of their biennial 
transparency reports and facilitating improved reporting over time;  
(b) Providing technical advice to the se cretariat on the implementation of the 
training of the technical expert review teams referred to in paragraph 12(c) above;  
16. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resou rces.  
                                                           
 1 https://unfccc.int/submissions_and_statements .  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
20  Annex  
Modalities, procedures and guidelines for the transparency 
framework for action and support referred to in Article 13 of 
the Paris Agreement  
I. Introduction  
A. Purpose  
1. In accordance with Article 13, paragraph 5, of the Paris Agreement, the purpose of 
the framew ork for transparency of action is to provide a clear understanding of climate 
change action in the light of the objective of the Convention as set out in its Article 2, 
including clarity and tracking of progress towards achieving Parties’ individual nation ally 
determined contributions (NDCs) under Article 4, and Parties’ adaptation actions under 
Article 7, including good practices, priorities, needs and gaps, to inform the global stocktake 
under Article 14.  
2. In accordance with Article 13, paragraph 6, of the  Paris Agreement, the purpose of 
the framework for transparency of support is to provide clarity on support provided and 
received by relevant individual Parties in the context of climate change actions under Articles 
4, 7, 9, 10 and 11, and, to the extent possible, to provide a full overview of aggregate financial 
support provided, to inform the global stocktake under Article 14.  
B. Guiding principles  
3. The guiding principles of these modalities, procedures and guidelines (MPGs) are:  
(a) Building on and enhancing th e transparency arrangements under the 
Convention, recognizing the special circumstances of the least developed countries (LDCs) 
and small island developing States (SIDS), and implementing the transparency framework in 
a facilitative, non -intrusive, non -punitive manner, respecting national sovereignty and 
avoiding placing undue burden on Parties;  
(b) The importance of facilitating improved reporting and transparency over time;  
(c) Providing flexibility to those developing country Parties that need it in the light 
of their capacities;  
(d) Promoting transparency, accuracy, completeness, consistency and 
comparability;  
(e) Avoiding duplication of work and undue burden on Parties and the secretariat;  
(f) Ensuring that Parties maintain at least the frequency and quality of reporting  
in accordance with their respective obligations under the Convention ; 
(g) Ensuring that double counting is avoided;  
(h) Ensuring environmental integrity . 
C. Flexibility to those developing country Parties that need it in the light of 
their capacities  
4. In accordance w ith Article 13, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement, the enhanced 
transparency framework shall provide flexibility in the implementation of the provisions of 
Article 13 to those developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities, and 
these MPGs shall reflect such flexibility.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
 21 5. These MPGs specify the flexibility that is available to those developing country 
Parties that need it in the light of their capacities pursuant to Article 13, paragraph 2, 
reflecting flexibility, including in the  scope, frequency and level of detail of reporting, and 
in the scope of the review, as referred to decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 89.  
6. The application of a flexibility  provided for in the provisions of these MPGs for those 
developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities is to be self -determined. 
The developing country Party shall clearly indicate the provision to which flexibility is 
applied, concisely clarify capacity constraints, noting that some constraints may be relevant 
to several  provisions, and provide self -determined estimated time frames for improvements 
in relation to those capacity constraints. When a developing country Party applies flexibility 
provided for in these MPGs, the technical expert review teams shall not review th e Party’s 
determination to apply such flexibility or whether the Party possesses the capacity to 
implement that specific provision without flexibility.  
D. Facilitating improved reporting and transparency over time  
7. To facilitate continuous improvement, each Pa rty should, to the extent possible, 
identify, regularly update and include as part of its biennial transparency report information 
on areas  of improvement  in relation  to its reporting  pursuant  to chapters  II, III, IV, V and VI 
of these MPGs, including, as  applicable:  
(a) Areas  of improvement  identified  by the Party  and the technical expert review team 
in relation  to the Party’s  implementation of Article 13 of the Paris  Agreement;  
(b) How the Party is addressing or intends to address areas of improvement as 
referred  to in paragraph 7(a) above, as appropriate;  
(c) Those developing country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their 
capacities are encouraged to highlight the areas of improvement that are related to the 
flexibility provisions used;  
(d) Identification of  reporting -related capacity -building support needs, including 
those referred to in paragraph 6 above, and any progress made, including those previously 
identified as part of the technical expert review referred to in chapter VII below.  
8. Parties’ domestic p lans and priorities with regard to improved reporting reported 
pursuant to paragraph 7 above are not subject to technical expert review, but the information 
may inform discussions on areas of improvement and identification of capacity -building 
needs betwee n the technical expert review team and the Party concerned.  
9. In accordance with Article 13, paragraphs 14 and 15, of the Paris Agreement, support 
shall be provided to developing country Parties for the implementation of Article 13 of the 
Paris Agreement an d for the building of transparency -related capacity of developing country 
Parties on a continuous basis.  
E. Reporting format  
10. In the biennial transparency report:  
(a) Each Party shall provide a national inventory report of anthropogenic 
emissions by sources and removals by sinks of greenhouse gases (GHGs), in accordance with 
the MPGs contained in chapter II below;  
(b) Each Party shall provide the information necessary to track progress in 
implementing and achieving its NDC under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement, in a ccordance 
with the MPGs contained in chapter III below;  
(c) Each Party should provide information on climate change impacts and 
adaptation under Article 7 of the Paris Agreement, in accordance with the MPGs contained 
in chapter IV below;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
22  (d) Developed country Par ties shall provide information pursuant to Article 13, 
paragraph 9, in accordance with the MPGs contained in chapter V below. Other Parties that 
provide support should provide such information and, in doing so, are encouraged to use the 
MPGs contained in c hapter V below;  
(e) Developing country Parties should provide information on financial, 
technology transfer and capacity -building support needed and received under Articles 9, 10 
and 11 of the Paris Agreement, in accordance with the MPGs  contained in chapter V I below.  
11. The LDCs and SIDS may submit the information referred to in paragraph 10 above at 
their discretion.  
12. Notwithstanding paragraph 10 above, the national inventory report referred to in 
paragraph 10 above may be submitted as a stand -alone report or as a component of a biennial 
transparency report.  
13. If a Party submits an adaptation communication as a component of or in conjunction 
with a biennial transparency report, it should clearly identify which part of the report is the 
adaptation communication.  
14. When  reporting information related to climate change impacts and adaptation under 
Article 7 of the Paris Agreement as referred to in paragraph 10(c) above, a Party may cross -
reference previously reported information and focus its reporting on updates to previo usly 
reported information.  
15. Each Party shall transmit its biennial transparency report, and national inventory 
report if submitted as a stand -alone report, via an online portal maintained by the secretariat. 
The secretariat shall post the reports on the UNF CCC website.  
16. Each Party shall submit the reports referred to in paragraphs 10 and 12 above in one 
of the official languages of the United Nations.  
II. National inventory report of anthropogenic emissions by 
sources and removals by sinks of greenhouse gases  
A. Definitions  
17. The definitions of the GHG inventory principles used shall be as provided in the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National 
Greenhouse Gas Inventories  (hereinafter referred to as the 2006 IPCC Guidelines), volume  1, 
chapter 1, section 1.4.  
B. National circumstances and institutional arrangements  
18. Each Party should implement and maintain national inventory arrangements, 
including institutional, legal and procedural arrangements for the continued estimation, 
compi lation and timely reporting of national inventory reports in accordance with these 
MPGs. National inventory arrangements can vary by Party depending on their national 
circumstances and preferences, and change over time.  
19. Each Party shall report on the follo wing functions related to inventory planning, 
preparation and management:  
(a)  Its national entity or national focal point with overall responsibility for the 
national inventory;  
(b) Its inventory preparation process, including division of specific responsibilit ies 
of institutions participating in the inventory preparation to ensure that sufficient activity data 
collection, choice and development of methods, emission factors and other parameters are in 
accordance with the IPCC guidelines referred to in paragraph 20 below and these MPGs ; FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
 23 (c) Its archiving of all information for the reported time series, including all 
disaggregated emission factors and activity data, all documentation about generating and 
aggregating data, including quality assurance/quality control (QA /QC) , review results and 
planned inventory improvements;  
(d) Its processes for the official consideration and approval of the inventory.  
C. Methods  
1. Methodologies, parameters and data  
20. Each Party shall use the 2006 IPCC Guidelines, and shall use any subsequent version 
or refinement of the IPCC guidelines agreed upon by the Conference of the Parties serving 
as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement (CMA). Each Party is encourag ed to use 
the 2013 Supplement to the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories: 
Wetlands .  
21. Each Party shall u se methods  from  the IPCC guidelines referred to in paragraph 20 
above. Each Party should make every effort to use a recommended method (tier level) for 
key categories in accordance with those IPCC guidelines.   
22. Each Party may use national ly appropriate  methodologies  if they  better reflect its 
national circumstances and are consistent with the IPCC guidelines referred to in paragraph  
20 above. In these cases, each Party shall transparently explain national methods, data and/or 
parameters selected . 
23. A Party may be unable to adopt a higher tier method for a particular key category 
owing to lack of resources. In such cases, the Party may use a tier 1 approach, and shall 
clearly document why the methodological choice was not in line with the corresponding 
decision tree of the IPCC guidelines referred to in paragraph 20 above. The Party should 
prioritize for future improvement any key catego ries for which the good practice method 
elaborated in the IPCC guidelines referred to in paragraph 20 above cannot be used.  
24. Each Party is encouraged to use country -specific and regional emission factors and 
activity data, where available, or to propose pl ans to develop them, in accordance with the 
good practice elaborated in the IPCC guidelines referred to in paragraph 20 above.  
2. Key category analysis  
25. Each Party shall identify key categories for the starting year and the latest reporting 
year referred to in  chapter II.E.3 below, including and excluding land use, land -use change 
and forestry (LULUCF) categories, using approach 1, for both level and trend assessment, 
by implementing a key category analysis consistent with the IPCC guidelines referred to in 
paragraph 20 above; those developing country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their 
capacities with respect to this provision have the flexibility to instead identify ke y categories 
using a threshold no lower than 85 per cent in place of the 95 per cent threshold defined in 
the IPCC guidelines referred to in paragraph 20 above, allowing a focus on improving fewer 
categories and prioritizing resources.  
3. Time -series consiste ncy and recalculations  
26. To ensure time -series consistency, each Party should use the same methods and a 
consistent approach to underlying activity data and emission factors for each reported year.  
27. Each Party should use surrogate data, extrapolation, interpo lation and other methods 
consistent with splicing techniques contained in the IPCC guidelines referred to in paragraph 
20 above to estimate missing emission values resulting from lack of activity data, emission 
factors or other parameters in order to ensur e a consistent time series.  
28. Each Party shall perform recalculations in accordance with the IPCC guidelines 
referred to in paragraph 20 above, ensuring that changes in emission trends are not introduced 
as a result of changes in methods or assumptions acros s the time series.   FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
24  4. Uncertainty assessment  
29. Each Party shall quantitatively estimate and qualitatively discuss the uncertainty of 
the emission and removal estimates for all source and sink categories, including inventory 
totals, for at least the starting ye ar and the latest reporting year of the inventory time series 
referred to in paragraphs 57 and 58 below. Each Party shall also estimate the trend uncertainty 
of emission and removal estimates for all source and sink categories, including totals, 
between th e starting year and the latest reporting year of the inventory time series referred to 
in paragraphs 57 and 58 below, using at least approach 1, as provided in the IPCC guidelines 
referred to in paragraph 20 above; those developing country Parties that nee d flexibility in 
the light of their capacities with respect to this provision have the flexibility to instead provide, 
at a minimum, a qualitative discussion of uncertainty for key categories, using the IPCC 
guidelines referred to in paragraph 20 above, wh ere quantitative input data are unavailable 
to quantitatively estimate uncertainties, and are encouraged to provide a quantitative estimate 
of uncertainty for all source and sink categories of the GHG inventory.  
5. Assessment of completeness  
30. Each Party should  indicate the sources and sinks (categories, pools and gases) that are 
not considered in the national inventory report but for which estimation methods are included 
in the IPCC guidelines referred to in paragraph 20 above and explain the reasons for such 
exclusion.  
31. Each Party shall use notation keys where numerical data are not available when 
completing common reporting tables, indicating the reasons why emissions from sources and 
removals by sinks and associated data for specific sectors, categories and su bcategories or 
gases are not reported. These notation keys include:  
(a) “NO” (not occurring) for categories or processes, including recovery, under a 
particular source or sink category that do not occur within a Party;  
(b) “NE” (not estimated) for activity data and/or emissions by sources and 
removals by sinks of GHGs that have not been estimated but for which a corresponding 
activity may occur within a Party;  
(c) “NA” (not applicable) for activities under a given source/sink category that do 
occur within the Party b ut do not result in emissions or removals of a specific gas;  
(d) “IE” (included elsewhere) for emissions by sources and removals by sinks of 
GHGs estimated but included elsewhere in the inventory instead of under the expected 
source/sink category;  
(e) “C” (confide ntial) for emissions by sources and removals by sinks of GHGs 
where the reporting would involve the disclosure of confidential information.  
32. Each Party may use the notation key “NE” (not estimated) when the estimates would 
be insignificant in terms of level  according to the following considerations: emissions from 
a category should only be considered insignificant if the likely level of emissions is below 
0.05 per cent of the national total GHG emissions, excluding LULUCF , or 500 kilotonnes of 
carbon dioxide  equivalent (kt CO 2 eq), whichever is lower. The total national aggregate of 
estimated emissions for all gases from categories considered insignificant shall remain below 
0.1 per cent of the national total GHG emissions, excluding LULUCF. Parties should us e 
approximated activity data and default IPCC emission factors to derive a likely level of 
emissions for the respective category. Those developing country Parties that need flexibility 
in the light of their capacities with respect to this provision have th e flexibility to instead 
consider emissions insignificant if the likely level of emissions is below 0.1 per cent of the 
national total GHG emissions, excluding LULUCF, or 1,000 kt CO 2 eq, whichever is lower. 
The total national aggregate of estimated emissi ons for all gases from categories considered 
insignificant, in this case, shall remain below 0.2 per cent of the national total GHG emissions, 
excluding LULUCF.  
33. Once emissions or removals have been estimated for a category and if they continue 
to occur, ea ch Party shall report them in subsequent submissions.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
 25 6. Quality assurance/quality control  
34. Each Party shall elaborate an inventory QA/QC plan in accordance with the IPCC 
guidelines referred to in paragraph 20 above, including information on the inventory agen cy 
responsible for implementing QA/QC; those developing country Parties that need flexibility 
in the light of their capacities with respect to this provision are instead encouraged to 
elaborate an inventory QA/QC plan in accordance with the IPCC guidelines  referred to in 
paragraph 20  above, including information on the inventory agency responsible for 
implementing QA/QC.  
35. Each Party shall implement and provide information on general inventory QC 
procedures in accordance with its QA/QC plan and the IPCC guide lines referred to in 
paragraph 20 above; those developing country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their 
capacities with respect to this provision are instead encouraged to implement and provide 
information on general inventory QC procedures i n accordance with its QA/QC plan and the 
IPCC guidelines referred to in paragraph 20 above. In addition, Parties should apply 
category -specific QC procedures in accordance with the IPCC guidelines referred to in 
paragraph 20 above for key categories and fo r those individual categories in which significant 
methodological changes and/or data revisions have occurred. In addition, Parties should 
implement QA procedures by conducting a basic expert peer review of their inventories in 
accordance with the IPCC gui delines referred to in paragraph 20 above.  
36. Each Party should compare the national estimates of CO 2 emissions from fuel 
combustion with those obtained using the reference approach, as contained in the IPCC 
guidelines referred to in paragraph 20 above, and r eport the results of this comparison in its 
national inventory report.  
D. Metrics  
37. Each Party shall use the 100 -year time -horizon global warming potential (GWP) 
values from the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report, or 100 -year time -horizon GWP values from 
a subsequent  IPCC assessment report as agreed upon by the CMA, to report aggregate 
emissions and removals of GHGs, expressed in CO 2 eq. Each Party may in addition also use 
other metrics (e.g. global temperature potential) to report supplemental information on 
aggregat e emissions and removals of GHGs, expressed in CO 2 eq. In such cases, the Party 
shall provide in the national inventory document information on the values of the metrics 
used and the IPCC assessment report they were sourced from.  
E. Reporting guidance  
38. Pursuan t to Article 13, paragraph 7(a), of the Paris Agreement, each Party shall 
provide a national inventory report of anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by 
sinks of GHGs. The national inventory report consists of a national inventory document and 
the common reporting tables. Each Party shall report the information referred to in paragraphs 
39–46 below, recognizing the associated flexibilities provided for those developing country 
Parties that need them in the light of their capacities.  
1. Information on methods and cross -cutting elements  
39. Each Party shall report methods used, including the rationale for the choice of methods, 
in accordance with good practice elaborated in the IPCC guidelines referred to paragraph 20 
above, and the descriptions, assumpti ons, references and sources of information used for the 
emission factors and activity data used to compile the GHG inventory.  
40. Each Party shall provide information on the category and gas, and the methodologies, 
emission factors and activity data used at t he most disaggregated level, to the extent possible, 
according to the IPCC guidelines referred to in paragraph 20 above, including related data 
references for reported emission and removal estimates for any country -specific category and 
gas that is not inc luded in the IPCC guidelines referred to in paragraph 20 above.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
26  41. Each Party shall describe the key categories, including information on the approach 
used for their identification, and information on the level of disaggregation used, in 
accordance with parag raph 25 above.  
42. Each Party shall report the individual and cumulative percentage contributions from 
key categories, for both level and trend, consistent with the IPCC guidelines referred to in 
paragraph 20 above and the provisions referred to in paragraph 25 above.  
43. Each Party shall report recalculations for the starting year referred to in paragraphs 57 
and 58 below and all subsequent years of the inventory time series, together with explanatory 
information and justifications for recalculations with an indi cation of relevant changes and 
their impact on the emission trends, in accordance with paragraphs 26 –28 above.  
44. Each Party shall report the results of the uncertainty analysis as well as methods used, 
underlying assumptions, as applicable, and trends, at le ast for the starting year and the latest 
reporting year of the inventory time series referred to in paragraphs 57 and 58 below, in 
accordance with paragraph 29 above.  
45. Each Party shall report information on the reasons for lack of completeness, including 
information on any methodological or data gaps, in accordance with paragraphs 30 –33 above.  
46. Each Party shall report the QA/QC plan and information on QA/QC procedures 
already implemented or to be implemented in the future, in accordance with paragraphs 
34−36 above.  
2. Sectors and gases  
47. Each Party shall report estimates of emissions and removals for all categories, gases 
and carbon pools considered in the GHG inventory throughout the reported period on a gas -
by-gas basis in units of mass at the most disaggregated level, in accordance with the IPCC 
guidelines referred to in paragraph 20 above, using the common reporting tables, including a 
descriptive summary and figures underlying emission trends, with emissions by sources 
listed separately from removals by sinks, except in cases where it may be technically 
impossible to separate information on emissions and removals in the LULUCF sector, and 
noting that a minimum level of aggregation is needed to protect confidential business and 
military information.  
48. Each Party s hall report seven gases (CO 2, methane (CH 4), nitrous oxide (N 2O), 
hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs),  sulfur hexafluoride (SF 6) and nitrogen 
trifluoride (NF 3)); those developing country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their 
capacities with respect to this provision have the flexibility to instead report at least three 
gases (CO 2, CH 4 and N 2O) as well as any of the additional four gases (HFCs, PFCs, SF 6 and 
NF 3) that are included in the Party’s NDC under Article 4 of the Paris A greement, are  covered 
by an activity under Article 6 of the Paris Agreement, or have been previously reported.  
49. Each Party reporting HFCs, PFCs, SF 6 and NF 3 shall report actual emissions of the 
gases, providing disaggregated data by chemical (e.g. HFC -134a)  and category in units of 
mass and in CO 2 eq.  
50. Each Party shall report the following sectors: energy, industrial processes and product 
use, agriculture, LULUCF and waste, according to the IPCC guidelines referred to in 
paragraph 20 above.  
51. Each Party shoul d provide information on the following precursor gases: carbon 
monoxide (CO), nitrogen oxides and non -methane volatile organic compounds (NMVOCs), 
as well as sul fur oxides.  
52. Each Party may report indirect CO 2 from the atmospheric oxidation of CH 4, CO and 
NMVOCs. For Parties that decide to report indirect CO 2, the national totals shall be presented 
with and without indirect CO 2. Each Party should report indirect N 2O emissions from sources 
other than those in the agriculture and LULUCF sectors as a memo item . Those estimates of 
indirect N 2O shall not be included in national totals. Parties may provide information on other 
substances that have an impact on climate.   FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
 27 53. Each Party should report international aviation and marine bunker fuel emissions as 
two separat e entries and should not include such emissions in national totals but report them 
distinctly, if disaggregated data are available, making every effort to both apply and report 
according to the method contained in the IPCC guidelines referred to in paragra ph 20 above 
for separating domestic and international emissions.  
54. Each Party should clearly indicate how feedstocks and non -energy use of fuels have 
been accounted for in the inventory, under the energy or industrial processes sector, in 
accordance with the  IPCC guidelines referred to in paragraph 20 above.  
55. In the case of a Party addressing the emissions and subsequent removals from natural 
disturbance s on managed lands in its national GHG inventory, that Party shall report 
information on the approach taken , and how it is consistent with IPCC guidance, as 
appropriate, and shall indicate if the estimates are indicated in national totals.  
56. In the case of a Party using an approach to reporting emissions and removals from 
harvested wood products in accordance wit h IPCC guidance other than the production 
approach, that Party shall also provide supplementary information on emissions and removals 
from harvested wood products estimated using the production approach.  
3. Time series  
57. Each Party shall report a consistent ann ual time series starting from 1990; those 
developing country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities with respect to 
this provision have the flexibility to instead report data covering, at a minimum, the  reference 
year/period for its  NDC  under Article 4  of the Paris Agreement and, in addition, a consistent 
annual time series from at least 2020 onwards.  
58. For each Party, the latest reporting year shall be no more than two years prior to the 
submission of its national inventory report; th ose developing country Parties that need 
flexibility in the light of their capacities with respect to this provision have the flexibility to 
instead have their latest reporting year as three years prior to the submission of their national 
inventory report.  
III. Information necessary to track progress made in 
implementing and achieving nationally determined 
contributions under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement  
A. National circumstances and institutional arrangements  
59. Each Party shall describe its national circumstance s relevant to progress made in 
implementing and achieving its NDC under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement, including:  
(a) Government structure;  
(b) Population profile;  
(c) Geographical profile;  
(d) Economic profile;  
(e) Climate profile;  
(f) Sector details.  
60. Each Party shall provide information on how its national circumstances affect GHG 
emissions and removals over time.  
61. Each Party shall provide information on the institutional arrangements in place to 
track progress made in implementing and achieving its NDC under Article 4,  including those 
used for tracking internationally transferred mitigation outcomes, if applicable, along with 
any changes in institutional arrangements since its most recent biennial transparency report.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
28  62. Each Party shall provide information on legal, inst itutional, administrative and 
procedural arrangements for domestic implementation, monitoring, reporting, archiving of 
information and stakeholder engagement related to the implementation and achievement of 
its NDC under Article 4.  
63. In reporting  the informa tion referred to in paragraphs 59 –62 above, a Party may 
reference previously reported information.  
B. Description of a Party’s nationally determined contribution under 
Article 4 of the Paris Agreement, including updates  
64. Each Party shall provide a description of its  NDC  under Article 4, against which 
progress will be tracked . The information provided shall include the following,  as applicable, 
including any updates to  information previously provided : 
(a) Target(s) and description, including target type(s) (e.g. economy -wide 
absolute emission reduction, emission intensity reduction, emission reduction below a 
projected baseline, mitigation co -benefits of adaptation actions or economic diversification 
plans,  policies and measures, and other);  
(b) Target year(s) or period(s), and whether they are single -year or multi -year 
target(s);  
(c) Reference point(s), level(s), baseline(s), base year(s) or starting point(s), and 
their respective value(s);  
(d) Time frame(s) and/or p eriods for implementation;  
(e) Scope and coverage, including, as relevant, sectors, categories, activities, 
sources and sinks, pools and gases;  
(f) Intention to use cooperative approaches that involve the use of internationally 
transferred mitigation outcomes und er Article 6 towards NDCs under Article 4 of the Paris 
Agreement;  
(g) Any updates or clarifications of previously reported information (e.g. 
recalculation of previously reported inventory data, or greater detail on methodologies or use 
of cooperative  approache s).  
C. Information necessary to track progress made in implementing and 
achieving its nationally determined contribution under Article 4 of the 
Paris Agreement  
65. Each Party shall identify the indicator(s) that it has selected to track progress towards 
the impl ementation and achievement of its NDC under Article 4. Indicators shall be relevant 
to a Party’s NDC under Article 4, and may be either qualitative or quantitative.  
66. These  indicators could include, as appropriate, for example: net GHG emissions and 
removals , percentage reduction of GHG intensity, relevant qualitative indicators for a 
specific policy or measure, mitigation co -benefits of adaptation actions and/or economic 
diversification plans or other (e.g. hectares of reforestation, percentage of renewable energy 
use or production, carbon neutrality, share of non -fossil fuel in primary energy consumption 
and non -GHG related indicators).  
67. Each Party shall provide the information for each selected indicator for the reference 
point(s), level(s), baseline(s), bas e year(s) or starting point(s), and shall update the 
information in accordance with any recalculation of the GHG inventory, as appropriate.  
68. Each Party shall provide the most recent information for each selected indicator 
identified in paragraph 65 above fo r each reporting year during the implementation period of 
its NDC under Article 4.   FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
 29 69. Each Party shall compare the most recent informati on for each selected indicator with 
the information provided pursuant to paragraph 67 above to track progress made in 
implementing its NDC under Article 4.  
70. For the first biennial transparency report that contains information on the end year or 
end of the period of its NDC under Article 4, each Party shall provide an assessment of 
whether it has achieved the target(s) for its NDC under Article 4 based on the relevant 
information described in paragraphs 59 –69 above and paragraph 78 below, as applicable, and 
the most recent information for each selected indicator relevant to tracking progress towards 
the implementation and ac hievement of its NDC under Article 4.  
71. For the first NDC under Article 4, each Party shall clearly indicate and report its 
accounting approach, including how it is consistent with Article 4, paragraphs 13 and 14 , of 
the Paris Agreement. Each Party may choos e to provide information on accounting of its first 
NDC consistent with decision 4/CMA.1.  
72. For the second and subsequent NDC under Article 4, each Party shall provide 
information referred to in chapter III.B and C above consistent with decision 4/CMA.1. Ea ch 
Party shall clearly indicate how its reporting is consistent with decision 4/CMA.1.  
73. Each Party shall provide any definitions needed to understand its NDC under Article  4, 
including those related to each indicator identified in paragraph 65 above, those related to 
any sectors or categories defined differently than in the national inventory report, or the 
mitigation co -benefits of adaptation actions and/or economic diversification plans.  
74. Each Party shall provide a description of each methodology and/or acc ounting 
approach used, as applicable for:  
(a) Target(s), as described in paragraph 64 above;  
(b) The construction of  baselines, as described in paragraph 64 above, to the 
extent possible;  
(c) Each indicator identified in paragraph 65 above.  
75. The information referred t o in paragraph 74 above shall include, as applicable  and 
available to the Party’s NDC under Article 4:  
(a) Key parameters, assumptions, definitions, data sources and models used;  
(b) IPCC guidelines used;  
(c) Metrics used;  
(d) Where applicable to its NDC, any sector -, category - or activity -specific 
assumptions, methodologies and approaches consistent with IPCC guidance, taking into 
account any relevant decision under the Convention, including as applicable:  
(i) The approach used to address emissions and subsequent removals from natural 
disturbances on managed lands;  
(ii) The approach used to account for emissions and removals from harvested 
wood products;  
(iii) The approach used to address the effects of age -class structure in forests;  
(e) Methodologies used to estimate mitigation co -bene fits of adaptation actions 
and/or economic diversification plans;  
(f) Methodologies associated with any cooperative approaches that involve the 
use of internationally transferred mitigation outcomes towards its NDC under Article 4, 
consistent with CMA guidance  on cooperative approaches under Article 6 ; 
(g) Methodologies used to track progress arising from the implementation of 
policies and measures;  
(h) Any other methodologies related to its NDC under Article 4;  
(i) Any conditions and assumptions relevant to the achievement of its NDC under 
Article  4. FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
30  76. Each Party shall also:  
(a) Describe, for each indicator identified in paragraph 65 above, how it is related 
to its NDC under Article 4;  
(b) Explain how the methodology in each reporting year is consistent with the 
methodol ogy or methodologies used when communicating the NDC;  
(c) Explain methodological inconsistencies with its most recent national inventory 
report, if applicable;  
(d) Describe how double counting of net GHG emission reductions has been 
avoided, including in accordanc e with guidance developed in relation to Article 6, if relevant.  
77. Each Party shall provide the information referred to in paragraphs 65 –76 above in a 
structured summary to track progress made in implementing and achieving its NDC under 
Article 4, including:   
(a) For each selected indicator:  
(i) Information for the reference point(s), level(s), baseline(s), base year(s), or 
starting point(s) referred to in paragraph 67 above;  
(ii) Information for previous reporting years during the implementation period of 
its NDC under Article 4, identified in paragraph 68 above, as applicable;  
(iii) The most recent information identified in paragraph 68 above;  
(b) Where applicable, information on GHG emissions and removals consistent 
with the coverage of its NDC under Article 4;  
(c) Contribution from  the LULUCF  sector for each year of the target period or 
target year, if not included in the inventory time series of total net GHG emissions and 
removals, as applicable ; 
(d) Each Party that participates in cooperative approaches that involve the use of 
intern ationally transferred mitigation outcomes towards an NDC under Article 4, or 
authorizes the use of mitigation outcomes for international mitigation purposes other than 
achievement of its NDC , shall also provide  the following information in the structured 
summary  consistently with relevant decisions adopted by the CMA on Article 6 : 
(i) The annual level of anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks 
covered by the NDC on an annual basis  reported biennially;  
(ii) An emissions balance reflecting the level of anthropogenic emissions by 
sources and removals by sinks covered by its NDC adjusted on the basis of 
corresponding adjustments undertaken by effecting an addition for internationally 
transf erred mitigation outcomes first -transferred/transferred and a subtraction for 
internationally transferred mitigation outcomes  used/acquired, consistent with 
decisions adopted by the CMA on Article 6 ; 
(iii) Any other information consistent with decisions adopted by the CMA on 
reporting under Article 6 ; 
(iv) Information on how each cooperative approach promotes sustainable 
development; and ensures environmental integrity and transparency, including in 
governance; and applies robust accounting to ensure inter alia the av oidance of double 
counting, consistent with decisions adopted by the CMA on Article 6 . 
78. Each Party with an NDC under Article 4 that consists of adaptation actions and/or 
economic diversification plans resulting in mitigation co -benefits consistent with Arti cle 4, 
paragraph 7, of the Paris Agreement shall provide the information necessary to track progress 
on the implementation and achievement of the domestic policies and measures implemented 
to address the social and economic consequences of response measure s, including:  
(a) Sectors and activities associated with  the response measures;  
(b) Social and economic consequences of the response measures;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
 31 (c) Challenges in and barriers to address ing the consequences;  
(d) Actions to address the consequences.  
79. Each Party shall report t he information referred  to in paragraphs 65 –78 above in a 
narrative and common tabular format, as applicable. Such common tabular formats should 
accommodate all types of NDC under Article 4, as appropriate.  
D. Mitigation policies and measures , actions and pla ns, including those 
with mitigation co -benefits resulting from adaptation actions and 
economic diversification plans, related to implementing and achieving a 
nationally determined contribution under Article 4 of the Paris 
Agreement  
80. Each Party shall provide  information on actions, policies and measures that support 
the implementation and achievement of its NDC under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement, 
focusing on those that have the most significant impact on GHG emissions or removals and 
those impacting key c ategories in the national GHG inventory. This information shall be 
presented in narrative and tabular format.  
81. To the extent possible, Parties shall organize the reporting of actions by sector (energy, 
transport, industrial processes and product use, agricu lture, LULUCF, waste management 
and other).  
82. Each Party shall provide the following information on its actions, policies and 
measures, to the extent possible, in a tabular format:  
(a) Name;  
(b) Description;  
(c) Objectives;  
(d) Type of instrument (regulatory, economic instr ument or other);  
(e) Status (planned, adopted or implemented);  
(f) Sector(s) affected (energy, transport, industrial processes and product use, 
agriculture, LULUCF, waste management or other);  
(g) Gases affected;  
(h) Start year of implementation;  
(i) Implementing entity or entities.  
83. Each Party may also provide the following information for each action, policy and 
measure reported:  
(a) Costs;  
(b) Non-GHG mitigation benefits ; 
(c) How the mitigation actions as identified in paragraph 80 above  interact with 
each other, as appropriate.  
84. For e ach Party with an NDC under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement that consists of 
mitigation co -benefits resulting from Parties’ adaptation actions and/or economic 
diversification plans consistent with Article 4 , paragraph 7, information to be reported under 
paragraphs 80, 82 and 83 above includes relevant information on policies and measures 
contributing to mitigation co -benefits resulting from adaptation actions or economic 
diversification plans.  
85. Each Party shall provide, to the extent possible, estimates of  expected and achieved 
GHG emission reductions for its actions, policies and measures in the tabular format referred 
to in paragraph 82 above; those developing country Parties that need flexibility in the light FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
32  of their capacities with respect to this prov ision are instead encouraged to report this 
information.  
86. Each Party shall describe the methodologies and assumptions used to estimate the 
GHG emission reductions or removals due to  each action, policy and measure, to the extent 
available. This information  may be presented in an annex to its biennial transparency report.  
87. Each Party should identify those actions, policies and measures that are no longer in 
place compared with the most recent biennial transparency report, and explain why they are 
no longer in  place.  
88. Each Party should  identify its actions, policies and measures that influence GHG 
emissions from international transport.  
89. Each Party should, to the extent possible, provide information about how its actions, 
policies and measures are modifying long er-term trends in GHG emissions and removals.  
90. Each Party is encouraged to provide detailed information, to the extent possible, on 
the assessment of economic and social impacts of response measures.  
E. Summary of greenhouse gas emissions and removals  
91. Each Par ty that submits a stand -alone national inventory report shall provide a 
summary of its GHG emissions and removals. This information shall be provided for those  
reporting years corresponding to the Party’s most recent national inventory report, in a tabular  
format.  
F. Projections of greenhouse gas emissions and removals, as applicable  
92. Each Party shall report projections pursuant to paragraphs 93 –101 below; those 
developing country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities are instead 
encour aged to report these  projections .  
93.  Projections are indicative of the impact of mitigation policies and measures on future 
trends in GHG emissions and removals, and shall not be used to assess progress towards the 
implementation and achievement of a Party’s NDC under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement  
unless the Party has identified a reported projection as its baseline as identified in chapter 
III.B above.  
94. Each Party  that reports pursuant to paragraph 92 above shall report a ‘with measures’ 
projection  of all GHG emissions and removals and may report a ‘with additional measures’ 
projection and a ‘without measures’ projection .1 
95. Projections shall begin from the most recent year in the Party’s national inventory 
report and extend at least 15 years beyond th e next year ending in zero or five; those 
developing country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities with respect to 
this provision have the flexibility to instead extend their projections at least to the end point 
of their NDC under  Article 4 of the Paris Agreement.  
96. Each Party should provide information in describing the methodology used to develop 
the projections. This information should include :  
(a) Models and/or approaches used and key underlying assumptions and 
parameters used for p rojections (e.g. gross domestic product growth rate/level, population 
growth rate/level);  
                                                           
 1 A ‘with measures ’ scenario  encompasses currently implemented and adopted policies and measures. 
If provided, a ‘with additional measures ’ scenario  encompasses implemented, adopted and planned 
policies and measures. If provided, a ‘without measures ’ projection exclude s all policies and 
measures implemented, adopted and planned after the year chosen as the starting point s for the 
projection.   FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
 33 (b) Changes in the methodology since the Party’s most recent biennial 
transparency report;  
(c) Assumptions on policies and measures included in the ‘with measures’ 
projection s and ‘with additional measures’ projection s, if included;  
(d) Sensitivity analysis for any of the projections, together with a brief explanation 
of the methodologies and parameters used.  
97. Each Party shall also provide projections of key indicators to determine  progress 
towards its NDC under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement.  
98. Each Party shall include projections on a sectoral basis and by gas, as well as for the 
national total, using a common metric consistent with that in its national inventory report.  
99. Project ions shall be presented relative to actual inventory data for the preceding years.  
100. Emission projections shall be provided with and without LULUCF.  
101. Projections shall be presented in graphical and tabular formats.  
102. Those developing country Parties that need  flexibility in the light of their capacities 
with respect to paragraphs 93 –101 above can instead report using a less detailed methodology 
or coverage.  
G. Other information  
103. Each Party may  provide any other information relevant to tracking progress made in 
implementing and achieving its NDC under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement.  
IV. Information related to climate change impacts and 
adaptation under Article 7 of the Paris Agreement  
104. Each Party should provide information related to climate change impacts and 
adaptat ion under Article 7 of the Paris Agreement, as appropriate. Providing such 
information is not mandatory.  
105. The i nformation referred to  below could facilitate, inter alia, recognition of the 
adaptation efforts of developing country Parties.  
A. National circumsta nces, institutional arrangements and legal 
frameworks  
106. Each Party should provide the following information, as appropriate:  
(a) National circumstances relevant to its adaptation actions, including 
biogeophysical characteristics, demographics, economy, infrastructure and information on 
adaptive capacity;  
(b) Institutional arrangements and governance, including for assessing impacts, 
addressing climate change at the sectoral level, decision -making, planning, coordination, 
addressing cross -cutting issues, adju sting priorities and activities, consultation, participation, 
implementation, data governance, monitoring and evaluation, and reporting;  
(c) Legal and policy frameworks and regulations.  
B. Impacts, risks and vulnerabilities , as appropriate   
107. Each Party should prov ide the following information, as appropriate:  
(a) Current and projected climate trends and hazards;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
34  (b) Observed and potential impacts of climate change, including sectoral, 
economic, social and/or environmental vulnerabilities;  
(c) Approaches, methodologies and too ls, and associated uncertainties and 
challenges , in relation to paragraph 107(a) and (b) above.  
C. Adaptation priorities and barriers  
108. Each Party should provide the following information, as appropriate:  
(a) Domestic priorities and progress towards th ose prioriti es; 
(b) Adaptation challenges and gaps , and barriers to adaptation.  
D. Adaptation strategies, policies, plans, goals and actions to integrate 
adaptation into national policies and strategies  
109. Each Party should provide the following information, as appropriate:  
(a) Implementation of adaptation actions in accordance with the global goal on 
adaptation as set out in Article 7, paragraph 1, of the Paris Agreement;  
(b) Adaptation goals, actions, objectives, undertakings, efforts, plans (e.g. national 
adaptation plans and subnati onal plans), strategies, policies, priorities (e.g. priority sectors, 
priority regions or integrated plans for coastal management, water and agriculture), 
programmes and efforts to build resilience;  
(c) How best available science, gender perspectives and indigenous, traditional 
and local knowledge are integrated into adaptation;  
(d) Development priorities related to climate change adaptation and impacts;  
(e) Any adaptation actions and/or economic diversification plans  leading to  
mitigation co -benefits;  
(f) Efforts to  integrate climate change into development efforts, plans, policies 
and programming, including related capacity -building activities;  
(g) Nature -based solutions to climate change adaptation;  
(h) Stakeholder involvement, including subnational, community -level and pr ivate 
sector plans, priorities, actions and programmes.  
E. Progress on implementation of adaptation  
110. Each Party should provide the following information, as appropriate, on progress on: 
(a) Implementation of the actions identified in chapter IV.D above;  
(b) Steps take n to formulate, implement, publish and update national and regional 
programmes , strategies and measures, policy frameworks (e.g. national adaptation plans) and 
other relevant information;  
(c) Implementation of adaptation actions identified in current and past adaptation 
communications, including efforts towards meeting adaptation needs, as appropriate;  
(d) Implementation of adaptation actions identified in the adaptation component 
of NDCs, as applicable;  
(e) Coordination activities and changes in regulation s, policies and planning.  
111. Developing country Parties may also include information on, as appropriate, 
implementation of supported adaptation actions, and the effectiveness of already 
implemented adaptation measures.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
 35 F. Monitoring and evaluation of adaptation actions and processes  
112. In order to enhance their adaptation actions and to facilitate reporting, as appropriate, 
each Party should report on the establishment or use of domestic systems to monitor and 
evaluate the implementation of adaptation actions. Parties should r eport on approaches and 
systems for monitoring and evaluation, including those in place or under development.  
113. Each Party should provide the following information, as appropriate, related to 
monitoring and evaluation:  
(a) Achievements, impacts, resilience, revi ew, effectiveness and results;  
(b) Approaches and systems used, and their outputs;  
(c) Assessment of and indicators for:  
(i) How adaptation increased resilience and reduced impacts;  
(ii) When adaptation is not sufficient to avert impacts;  
(iii) How effective implemented adaptation measures are;  
(d) Implementation, in particular on:  
(i) Transparency of planning and implementation;  
(ii) How support programmes meet specific vulnerabilit ies and adaptation needs;  
(iii) How adaptation actions influence other development goals;  
(iv) Good practices, exp erience and lessons learned from policy and regulatory 
changes, actions and coordination mechanisms.  
114. Each Party should provide information related to the effectiveness and sustainability 
of adaptation actions, as appropriate, including on:  
(a) Ownership, stake holder engagement, alignment of adaptation actions with 
national and subnational policies, and replicability;  
(b) The results of adaptation actions and the sustainability of those results.  
G. Information related to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and 
dam age associated with climate change impacts  
115. Each interested Party may provide, as appropriate, information related to enhancing 
understanding, action and support, on a cooperative and facilitative basis, to avert, minimize 
and address loss and damage associ ated with climate change impacts, taking into account 
projected changes in climate -related risks, vulnerabilities, adaptive capacities and exposure, 
including, as appropriate, on:  
(a) Observed and potential climate change impacts, including those related to 
extreme weather events and slow onset events, drawing upon the best available science;  
(b) Activities related to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage 
associated with the adverse effects of climate change;  
(c) Institutional arrangements to facilitate the implementation of the activities 
referred to in  paragraph 115(b) above.  
H. Cooperation, good practices, experience and lessons learned  
116. Each Party should provide the following information, as appropriate, related t o 
cooperation, good practices, experience and lessons learned:  
(a) Efforts to share information, good practices, experience and lessons learned, 
including as they relate to:  
(i) Science, planning and policies relevant to adaptation;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
36  (ii) Policy innovation and pilot an d demonstration projects;  
(iii) Integration of adaptation actions into planning at different levels;  
(iv) Cooperation to share information and to strengthen science, institutions and 
adaptation;  
(v) Area, scale and types of cooperation and good practices;  
(vi) Improving dura bility and effectiveness of adaptation actions;  
(vii) Helping developing countries to identify effective adaptation practices, needs, 
priorities, and challenges and gaps in a way that is consistent with encouraging good 
practices;  
(b) Strengthening scientific resear ch and knowledge related to:  
(i) Climate, including research and systematic observation and early warning 
systems, to inform climate services and decision -making;  
(ii) Vulnerability and adaptation;  
(iii) Monitoring and evaluation.  
I. Any other information related to climate change impacts and 
adaptation under Article 7 of the Paris Agreement  
117. Each Party may provide, as appropriate, any other information related to climate 
change impacts and adaptation under Article 7.  
V. Information on financial, technology development an d 
transfer and capacity -building support provided and 
mobilized under Articles 9 –11 of the Paris Agreement  
118. Developed country Parties shall provide information pursuant to Article 13, paragraph 
9, of the Paris Agreement in accordance with the MPGs contained  in this chapter. Other 
Parties that provide support should provide such information and, in doing so, are encouraged 
to use the MPGs contained in this chapter.  
A. National circumstances and institutional arrangements  
119. Information on national circumstances an d institutional arrangements relevant to 
reporting on the provision and mobilization of support, including:  
(a) Description of the systems and processes used to identify, track and report on 
support provided and mobilized through public interventions;  
(b) Descript ion of challenges and limitations;  
(c) Information on experience and good practices in relation to public policy and 
regulatory frameworks to incentivize further private climate financing and investment;  
(d) Efforts taken to enhance comparability and accuracy of i nformation reported 
on financial support provided and mobilized through public interventions, such as through 
use of international standards or harmonization with other countries, institutions and 
international systems.  
120. Information, if available, on nation al circumstances and institutional arrangements for 
the provision of technology development and transfer and capacity -building support.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
 37 B. Underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies  
121. In order to enhance the transparency of reporting, a description of the underlying 
assumptions, methodologies and definitions, as applicable, used to identify and/or report, 
including:  
(a) The chosen reporting year (calendar year, fiscal year);  
(b) The conversion between domestic currency and United States dollars;  
(c) The status (committed, disbursed);  
(d) The channel (bilateral, regional, multi -bilateral, multilateral);  
(e) The funding source ( official development assistance ( ODA ), other official 
flows ( OOF ), other);  
(f) The financial instrument (e.g. grant, concessional loan,  non-concessional loan, 
equity, guarantee, insurance, other (specify));  
(g) Information on instruments and funding sources reported, including how a 
Party has determined finance to be concessional and/or ODA, including by using information 
such as grant equiva lency, institution and/or instrument -based approaches;  
(h) The type of support (e.g. adaptation, mitigation, cross -cutting);  
(i) The sector;  
(j) The subsector;  
(k) Whether it supported capacity -building and/or technology development and 
transfer objectives;  
(l) The support a s being climate -specific;  
(m) Information on the efforts taken to avoid double counting, including on:  
(i) How double  counting among multiple Parties involved in the provision of 
support was avoided;  
(ii) How double counting among multiple Parties involved in the mobil ization of 
private finance through public interventions was avoided, including the 
methodologies and assumptions used to attribute the mobilized resources through 
public interventions reported to the Party that reports them, if possible relative to the 
type of instrument used for the mobilization;  
(iii) How double counting was avoided between the resources reported as provided 
or mobilized, and the resources used under Article 6  of the Paris Agreement  by the 
acquiring Party for use towards the achievement of its NDC;  
(iv) How support is attributed between multiple recipient countries, in cases where 
a project involves  multiple recipient countries and where this information is reported 
on a country -by-country basis;  
(n) The definition of public and private finance, in parti cular where entities or 
funds are mixed;  
(o) How private finance was assessed as mobilized through public interventions, 
including by:  
(i) Identifying a clear causal link between a public intervention and mobilized 
private finance, where the activity would not hav e moved forward, or moved forward 
at scale, in the absence of the Party’s intervention;  
(ii) Providing information on the point of measurement (e.g. point of commitment, 
point of disbursement) of the private finance mobilized as a result of the public 
intervent ion, to the extent possible in relation to the type of instrument or mechanism 
used for the mobilization;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
38  (iii) Providing information on the boundaries used to identify finance as mobilized 
by public intervention;  
(p) How it seeks to ensure that support provided and  mobilized through public 
interventions effectively addresses the needs and priorities of developing country Parties for 
the implementation of the Paris Agreement, as identified in country -driven strategies and 
instruments, such as biennial transparency re ports , NDCs and national adaptation plans ; 
(q) How it seeks to ensure that support provided and mobilized through public 
interventions is in line with the long -term goals of the Paris Agreement;  
(r) An indication of what new and additional financial resources have  been 
provided, and how it has been determined that such resources are new and additional;  
(s) How the information provided reflects a progression from previous levels in 
the provision and mobilization of finance under the Paris Agreement;  
(t) Information on reporting on multilateral finance, including:  
(i) Whether the multilateral finance reported is based on the Party’s inflow 
contribution to a multilateral institution and/or on the Party’s share in the outflow of 
the multilateral institution;  
(ii) Whether and how mu ltilateral finance has been reported as climate -specific 
and how the climate -specific share was calculated, including by, for example, using 
existing international standards;  
(iii) Whether multilateral finance has been reported as core/general, with the 
understa nding that the actual climate finance amount it would transfer into depends 
on the programming choices of the multilateral institutions;  
(iv) Whether  and how multilateral finance has been attributed to the reporting Party.  
122. A description of the underlying assum ptions, definitions  and methodologies used to 
provide information on technology development and transfer and capacity -building support.  
C. Information on financial support provided and mobilized under 
Article  9 of the Paris Agreement  
1. Bilateral, regional and o ther channels  
123. Relevant information, in a tabular format, for the previous two reporting years without 
overlapping with the previous reporting periods, on bilateral and regional financial support 
provided, specifying:  
(a) Year (calendar year, fiscal year);  
(b) Amou nt (in United States dollars and domestic currency) (the face value and, 
on a voluntary basis, the grant -equivalent value);  
(c) Recipient, including, to the extent possible, information on the recipient region 
or country and the title of the project, programme, activity or other (specify);  
(d) Status (disbursed, committed);  
(e) Channel (bilateral, regional, multi -bilateral, other (specify));  
(f) Funding source (ODA, OOF, other (specify));  
(g) Financial instrument (e.g. grant, concessional loan, non -concessional loan, 
equity, guarantee, insurance, other (specify));  
(h) The type of support (e.g. adaptation, mitigation or cross -cutting);  
(i) Sector (e.g. energy, transport, industry, agriculture, forestry, water and 
sanitation, cross -cutting, other (specify));  
(j) Subsector, as available;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
 39 (k) Additional information, as available (such as project/programme details, 
implementing agency and , to the extent possible, link to relevant project/programme 
documentation);  
(l) Whether it contributes to capacity -building and/or technology developmen t 
and transfer objectives, as available.  
2. Multilateral channels  
124. Relevant information, in a tabular format, for the previous two reporting years without 
overlapping with the previous reporting periods, on financial support provided through 
multilateral chann els, specifying:  
(a) Year (calendar year, fiscal year);  
(b) Institution (e.g. multilateral fund, the operating entities of the Financial 
Mechanism,  entities of the Technology Mechanism, multilateral financial institution, 
international organization, other (specify )); 
(c) Amount (in United States dollars and domestic currency) (the face value and, 
on a voluntary basis, the grant -equivalent value);  
(d) Core -general or climate -specific, as applicable;  
(e) Inflows and/or outflows, as applicable;  
(f) Recipient (e.g. country, region, gl obal, project, programme, activity, other 
(specify)), as applicable, as available;  
(g) Status (disbursed, committed);  
(h) Channel (multilateral, multi -bilateral);  
(i) Funding source (ODA, OOF, other (specify));  
(j) Financial instrument (e.g. grant, concessional loan, non -concessional loan, 
equity, guarantee, insurance, other (specify));  
(k) The type of support (e.g. adaptation, mitigation or cross -cutting), as available;  
(l) Sector (e.g. energy, transport, industry, agriculture, forestry, water and 
sanitation, cross -cutting, other  (specify)), as available;  
(m) Subsector, as available;  
(n) Whether it contributes to capacity -building and/or technology development 
and transfer objectives, as applicable, as available.  
3. Information on finance mobilized through public interventions  
125. Relevant information, in textual and/or tabular format, for the previous two reporting 
years without overlapping with the previous reporting periods, on financial support mobilized 
through public interventions through bilateral, regional and multilateral channels, including 
the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism and  entities of the Technology Mechanism , 
as applicable and to the extent possible:  
(a) Year (calendar year, fiscal year);  
(b) Amount (in United States dollars and domestic currency) (the face value and, 
on a voluntary basis, the grant -equivalent value, if applicable);  
(c) Amount of resources used to mobilize the support (in United States dollars and 
domestic currency);  
(d) Type of public intervention used (e.g. grant, concessional loan, non -
concessional loan, equ ity, guarantee, insurance, policy intervention, capacity -building, 
technology development and transfer, technical assistance);  
(e) Recipient (country, region, global, project, programme, activity, other 
(specify));  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
40  (f) Channel (bilateral, regional, multilateral);  
(g) The type of support (e.g. adaptation, mitigation or cross -cutting);  
(h) Sector (e.g. energy, transport, industry, agriculture, forestry, water and 
sanitation, cross -cutting, other (specify));  
(i) Subsector;  
(j) Additional information.  
D. Information on support for technology development and transfer 
provided under Article 10 of the Paris Agreement  
126. Information, in textual format, on support for technology development and transfer 
provided under Article 10 of the Paris Agreement, including, to the extent possible, 
qualitative and/or quantitative information on:  
(a) Strategies employed to support technology development and transfer, 
including case studies;  
(b) Support provided at different stages of the technology cycle;  
(c) Support for the development and enhancement of endogenou s capacities and 
technologies of developing country Parties;  
(d) Efforts to encourage private sector activities related to technology 
development and transfer and how such efforts support developing country Parties;  
(e) Efforts to accelerate, encourage and enable  innovation , including research, 
development and deployment  efforts, and collaborative approaches to research and 
development;  
(f) Knowledge generated.  
127. Quantitative and/or qualitative information in a common tabular format on measures 
or activities related to support for technology development and transfer implemented or 
planned since their previous report, including, to the extent possible and as relevant:  
(a) Title;  
(b) Recipient entity;  
(c) Description and objectives;  
(d) Type of support (mitigation, adaptation or cross -cutting);  
(e) Sector;  
(f) Type of technology;  
(g) Status of measure or activity;  
(h) Whether the activity was undertaken by the public and/or private sector.   
E. Information on capacity -building support provided under Article 11 of 
the Paris Agreement  
128. Information, in textual f ormat, on capacity -building support provided under Article  11 
of the Paris Agreement, including, to the extent possible, qualitative and/or quantitative 
information on:  
(a) Strategies employed to provide capacity -building support, including case 
studies;  
(b) How c apacity -building support that was provided responds to the existing and 
emerging capacity -building needs, priorities and gaps identified by developing country 
Parties in the areas of mitigation, adaptation, and technology development and transfer;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
 41 (c) Policies  that promote capacity -building support;  
(d) Involvement of stakeholders;  
(e) How support for capacity -building actions in developing country Parties that 
was provided promotes the sharing of lessons learned and best practices.  
129. Quantitative and/or qualitative information in a common tabular format on measures 
or activities related to capacity -building support implemented or planned since their previous 
report, including, to the extent possible and as relevant:  
(a) Title;  
(b) Recipient e ntity;  
(c) Description and objectives;  
(d) Type of support (mitigation, adaptation or cross -cutting);  
(e) Status of measure or activity.  
VI. Information on financial, technology development and 
transfer and capacity -building support needed and received 
under Articles 9 –11 of the Paris Agreement  
A. National circumstances, institutional arrangements and country -driven 
strategies  
130. Developing country Parties should provide information on national circumstances and 
institutional arrangements relevant to reporting on support needed  and received, including:  
(a) A description of the systems and processes used to identify, track and report 
support needed and received, including a description of the challenges and limitations;  
(b) Information on country priorities and strategies and on any aspe cts of the 
Party ’s NDC under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement that need support.  
B. Underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies  
131. In reporting information on support needed and received, developing country Parties 
should describe the underlying assump tions, definitions and methodologies used to provide 
information on support needed and received, including, as applicable, those used to:  
(a) Convert domestic currency into United States dollars;  
(b) Estimate the amount of support needed;  
(c) Determine the reporting y ear or time frame;  
(d) Identify support as coming from specific sources;  
(e) Determine support as committed, received or needed;  
(f) Identify and report  the status of the supported activity (planned, ongoing or 
completed);  
(g) Identify and report the channel (bilateral, regional or multilateral);  
(h) Identify and report the type of support (mitigation, adaptation or cross -cutting);  
(i) Identify and report the financial instrument (grant, concessional loan, non -
concessional loan, equity, guarantee or other);  
(j) Identify and report se ctors and subsectors;  
(k) Report on the use, impact and estimated results of the support needed and 
received;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
42  (l) Identify and report support as contributing to technology development and 
transfer and capacity -building;  
(m) Avoid double counting in reporting informati on on support needed and 
received for the implementation of Article 13 of the Paris Agreement and transparency -
related activities, including for transparency -related capacity -building, when reporting such 
information separately from other information on su pport needed and received.  
C. Information on financial support needed by developing country Parties 
under Article 9 of the Paris Agreement  
132. Developing country Parties should  provide information on financial support needed 
under Article 9 of the Paris Agreement  in textual format, including, to the extent possible and 
as available and as applicable:  
(a) Sectors for which the Party wishes to attract international finance, including 
existing barriers to attracting international finance;  
(b) Description of how the support w ill contribute to its NDC and to the long -term 
goals of the Paris Agreement.  
133. Developing country Parties should provide, in a common tabular format, information 
on financial support needed, including the following, to the extent possible, and as available 
and as applicable:  
(a) Title (of activity, programme or project);  
(b) Programme/project description;  
(c) Estimated amount (in domestic currency and in United States dollars);  
(d) Expected time frame;  
(e) Expected financial instrument (grant, concessional loan, non -concessional  
loan, equity, guarantee or other);  
(f) Type of support (mitigation, adaptation or cross -cutting);  
(g) Sector and subsector;  
(h) Whether the activity will contribute to technology development and transfer 
and/or capacity -building, if relevant;  
(i) Whether the activity is anchored in a national strategy and/or a n NDC ; 
(j) Expected use, impact and estimated results.  
D. Information on financial support received by developing country 
Parties under Article 9 of the Paris Agreement  
134. Developing country Parties should provide, in a common  tabular format, information 
on financial support received, including, to the extent possible, and as available and as 
applicable:  
(a) Title (of activity, programme or project);  
(b) Programme/project description;  
(c) Channel;  
(d) Recipient entity;  
(e) Implementing entity;  
(f) Amount received (in domestic currency and in United States dollars);  
(g) Time frame;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
 43 (h) Financial instrument (grant, concessional loan, non -concessional loan, equity, 
guarantee or other);  
(i) Status (committed or received);  
(j) Sector and subsector;  
(k) Type of support (mitig ation, adaptation or cross -cutting);  
(l) Whether the activity has contributed to technology development and transfer 
and/or capacity -building;  
(m) Status of activity (planned, ongoing or completed);  
(n) Use, impact and estimated results.  
E. Information on technology development and transfer support needed 
by developing country Parties under Article 10 of the Paris Agreement  
135. Developing country Parties should provide, in textual format, information on 
technology development and transfer support needed under Article 10 o f the Paris Agreement, 
including on, to the extent possible,  and as available and as applicable : 
(a) Plans, needs and priorities related to technology development and transfer, 
including those identified in technology needs assessments, where applicable;  
(b) Technology development and transfer related needs for the enhancement of 
endogenous capacities and technologies.  
136. Developing country Parties should provide, in a common tabular format, information 
on technology development and transfer support needed, inclu ding, to the extent possible and 
as available and as applicable:  
(a) Title (of activity, programme or project);  
(b) Programme/project description;  
(c) Type of support (mitigation, adaptation or cross -cutting);  
(d) Type of technology;  
(e) Expected time frame;  
(f) Sector;  
(g) Expecte d use, impact and estimated results.  
F. Information on technology development and transfer support received 
by developing country Parties under Article 10 of the Paris Agreement  
137. Developing country Parties should provide, in textual format,  information on 
technology development and transfer support received under Article 10 of the Paris 
Agreement, including on, to the extent possible, and as available and as applicable:  
(a) Case studies, including key success and failure stories;  
(b) How the support contributes to tech nology development and transfer, 
endogenous capacities and know -how;  
(c) The stage of the technology cycle supported, including research and 
development, demonstration, deployment, diffusion and transfer of technology.  
138. Developing  country Parties should provide , in a common tabular format, information 
on technology  development and transfer support received, including on, to the extent possible, 
and as available and as applicable:  
(a) Title (of activity, programme or project);  
(b) Programme/project description;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
44  (c) Type of technology;  
(d) Time frame;  
(e) Recipient entity;  
(f) Implementing entity;  
(g) Type of support (mitigation, adaptation or cross -cutting);  
(h) Sector;  
(i) Status of activity (planned, ongoing or completed);  
(j) Use, impact and estimated results.  
G. Information on capacity -building suppor t needed by developing 
country Parties under Article 11 of the Paris Agreement  
139. Developing  country Parties should provide, in textual format, information on 
capacity -building support needed under Article 11 of the Paris Agreement, including on, to 
the exten t possible and as available and as applicable :  
(a) The approach a Party seeks to take to enhance capacity -building support;  
(b) Country -specific capacity -building needs, constraints and gaps in 
communicating those needs, and an explanation of how the capacity -building support needed 
would improve the provision of such information;  
(c) Processes for enhancing public awareness, public participation and access to 
information in relation to capacity -building.  
140. Developing country Parties should provide, in a common tabular format, information 
on capacity -building support needed, including the following, to the extent possible, and as 
available and as applicable:  
(a) Title (of activity, programme or project);  
(b) Programme/project description;  
(c) Expected time frame;  
(d) Type of support (mitigation, adaptation or cross -cutting);  
(e) Expected use, impact and estimated results.  
H. Information on capacity -building support received by developing 
country Parties under Article 11 of the Paris Agreement  
141. Developing country Parties should provide, in tex tual format, information on 
capacity -building support received under Article 11 of the Paris Agreement, including on, to 
the extent possible, and as available and as applicable:  
(a) Case studies, including key success and failure stories;  
(b) How support received  has enhanced a Party’s capacity;  
(c) Capacity -building support received at the national and, where appropriate, 
subregional and regional level, including priorities, participation and the involvement of 
stakeholders.  
142. Developing country Parties should provide,  in a common tabular format, information 
on capacity -building support received, including the following, to the extent possible and as 
available and as applicable:  
(a) Title (of activity, programme or project);   
(b) Programme/project description;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
 45 (c) Implementing en tity; 
(d) Recipient entity;  
(e) Type of support (mitigation, adaptation or cross -cutting);  
(f) Time frame;  
(g) Status of activity (planned, ongoing or completed);  
(h) Use, impact and estimated results.  
I. Information on support needed and received by developing country 
Parties for the implementation of Article 13 of the Paris Agreement and 
transparency -related activities, including for transparency -related 
capacity -building  
143. Developing country Parties should provide information on support needed and 
received for implementing Article 13 of the Paris Agreement and transparency -related 
activities, including on, to the extent possible :  
(a) Support needed and received for preparing reports pursuant to Article 13;  
(b) Supp ort needed and received for addressing the areas for improvement 
identified by the technical expert review teams.  
144. Developing country Parties should provide, in a common tabular format, summary 
information on support needed and received for implementing Art icle 13 and transparency -
related activities, including for transparency -related capacity -building, including, to the 
extent possible and as applicable:  
(a) Title (of activity, programme or project);  
(b) Objectives and description;  
(c) Recipient entity;  
(d) Channel;  
(e) Amount  (in domestic currency and in United States dollars);  
(f) Time frame;  
(g) Status of activity (planned, ongoing or completed);  
(h) Use, impact and estimated results.  
145. In reporting information on support needed and received for the implementation of 
Article 13 of the Par is Agreement and transparency -related activities, including for 
transparency -related capacity -building, developing country Parties should  ensure the 
avoidance of double counting in reporting this information separately from other information 
on financial, technology development and capacity -building support that is needed or 
received.  
VII. Technical expert review  
A. Scope  
146. A technical expert review consists of:  
(a) A review of the consistency of the information submitted by the Party under 
Article 13, paragraphs 7 and 9 , of the Paris Agreement with these MPGs, taking into account 
the flexibility accorded to the Party under Article 13, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement;  
(b) Consideration of the Party’s implementation and achievement of its NDC 
under Article 4 of the Paris A greement;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
46  (c) Consideration of the Party’s support provided, as relevant;  
(d) Identification of areas of improvement for the Party related to implementation 
of Article 13 of the Paris Agreement;  
(e) For those developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities, 
assistance in identifying capacity -building needs.  
147. The technical expert review shall pay particular attention to the respective national 
capabilities and circumstances of developing country Parties.  
148. In accordance with Article 13, paragraph 3, of the Paris Agreement, the technical 
expert review will be implemented in a facilitative, non -intrusive, non -punitive manner, 
respectful of national sovereignty , and will avoid placing undue burden on Parties.  
149. Technical expert review teams sh all not:  
(a) Make political judgments;  
(b) Review the adequacy or appropriateness of a Party’s NDC under Article 4 of 
the Paris Agreement, of its associated description pursuant to chapter III.B above, or of the 
indicators identified in chapter III.C above;  
(c) Revi ew the adequacy of a Party’s domestic actions;  
(d) Review the adequacy of a Party’s support provided;  
(e) For those developing country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their 
capacities, review the Party’s determination to apply flexibility that has been provided for in 
these MPGs, including the self -determined estimated time frames referred to in  paragraph 6 
above, or whether a developing country Party possesses the capacity to implement that 
specific provision without flexibility.  
B. Information to be  reviewed  
150. Information submitted under Article 13, paragraphs 7 and 9, of the Paris Agreement 
shall undergo a technical expert review consistent with the MPGs contained in this chapter. 
This includes:  
(a) A national inventory report of anthropogenic emissions by sources and 
removals by sinks of GHGs, as referred to in paragraph 10(a) above, submitted by each Party;  
(b) Information necessary to track progress made in implementing and achieving 
its NDC under Article 4, as referred to in paragraph 10(b) above, submit ted by each Party;  
(c) Information on financial, technology development and transfer and capacity -
building support provided to developing country Parties under Articles 9, 10 and 11 of the 
Paris Agreement referred to in paragraph 10(d) above. Information submi tted by other Parties 
that provide support, as referred to in Article 9, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement, may 
undergo a technical expert review of this reported information at the Party’s discretion.  
C. Technical expert review format  
1. Definitions  
151. A technical expert review may be conducted as a centralized review, in -country 
review, desk review or simplified review.  
152. A centralized review is when the members of a technical expert review team conduct 
the review from a single, centralized location. During  a centralized review, a single technical 
expert review team could review several Parties.  
153. An in -country review is when the members of a technical expert review team conduct 
the review in the country of the Party undergoing a technical expert review. In -country visits 
will be scheduled, be planned and take place with the consent of, and in close coordination 
with, the Party subject to review.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
 47 154. A desk review is when the members of a technical expert review team conduct the 
review remotely from their respecti ve countries.  
155. A simplified review of a Party’s national inventory report involves the secretariat 
undertaking an initial assessment of completeness and consistency with the MPGs , consistent 
with the initial assessment procedures.2 A review of the findings  of this initial assessment 
will form part of the consequent technical expert review of the Party’s national inventory 
report.  
2. Applicability  
156. A Party’s biennial transparency report that is not subject to an in -country or simplified  
review shall undergo a ce ntralized or desk review.  
157. The LDCs and SIDS may choose to participate in the same centralized review as a 
group. During a centralized group review, a single expert review team will review several 
biennial transparency reports from the LDCs and SIDS.  
158. A Par ty shall undergo an in -country review for:  
(a) The first biennial transparency report;  
(b) At least two biennial transparency reports in a 10 -year period, of which one is 
the biennial transparency report  that contains information on the Party’s achievement of its  
NDC under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement;  
(c) A biennial transparency report if recommended in the technical expert review 
of the Party’s previous biennial transparency report;  
(d) A biennial transparency report upon the request of the Party under technical 
expert review.  
159. Those developing country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities 
with respect to paragraph 158 above have the flexibility to instead choose to undergo a 
centralized instead of an in -country review, but are encouraged to  undergo an in -country 
review.  
160. A desk review should not be conducted more often than once every five years, for the 
first biennial transparency report submitted following a Party’s communication or update of 
its NDC under Article 4 or for a biennial transp arency report that contains information on the 
Party’s achievement of its NDC under Article 4.  
161. A Party’s national inventory report submitted in a year in which a biennial 
transparency report is not due shall be subject to a simplified review. A follow -up of the 
findings of the simplified review will form part of the technical expert review in the 
subsequent year.  
D. Procedures  
162. For in -country, centralized and desk reviews:  
(a) The secretariat shall commence the preparation of the review process 
immediately following the submission of the information specified in chapter VII.B above 
and agree with the Party the dates of the technical expert review week at least 14 weeks prior 
to the technical expert review week. The secretariat may organize reviews of biennia l 
transparency reports in a staggered manner between two consecutive reports ; 
(b) The secretariat shall compose a technical expert review team at least 10 weeks 
prior to the technical expert review week ; 
(c) The technical expert review team should communicate any preliminary 
questions to the Party at least four weeks prior to the technical expert review week. The 
technical expert review team may request additional information before or during the 
                                                           
 2 To be  developed by the lead reviewers, with the assistance of the secretariat.   FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
48  technical expert review week. The Party concerned should make every r easonable effort to 
provide the requested information within two weeks of the request; those developing country 
Parties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities with respect to this provision are 
instead encouraged to provide the information within three weeks of the request ; 
(d) The technical expert review team shall communicate to the Party concerned 
draft areas of improvement, constituting preliminary “recommendations” (for “shall” 
provisions) and/or “encouragements” (for non -“shall” provisions ), and, for those developing 
country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities, any capacity -building 
needs identified in consultation with the Party concerned, at the end of the technical expert 
review week ; 
(e) The technical expert revie w team shall, under its collective responsibility, 
prepare a draft technical expert review report and through the secretariat send it to the Party 
concerned for comment within two months of the technical expert review week ; 
(f) The Party concerned shall then b e given up to one month from its receipt to 
provide comments; those developing country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their 
capacities with respect to this provision have the flexibility to instead provide comments 
within three months of receipt of the draft technical expert review report ; 
(g) The technical expert review team shall prepare the final version of the technical 
expert review report, taking into account the comments of the Party, within one month of 
receipt of the comments ; 
(h) Taking into account the procedures in the preceding paragraphs, the technical 
expert review team shall make every effort to complete the technical expert review report as 
early as possible and no later than 12 months from the start of the technical expert review 
process.  
163. For simplified reviews, the secretariat should prepare a draft initial assessment and 
send it to the Party within six weeks of the submission of a Party ’s information specified in 
chapter VII.B  above . The Party may then provide comments wi thin four weeks of receipt of 
the draft initial assessment. The secretariat should address the Party’s comments and publish 
the final initial assessment on the UNFCCC website within four weeks of receipt of the 
Party’s comments.  
E. Confidentiality  
164. A Party m ay designate information provided to the technical expert review team s 
during the review as confidential. In such a case, the Party should provide the basis for 
protecting such information . In this case, technical expert review team s and the secretariat 
shall not make the information publicly available. The obligation of the members of the 
technical expert review team to maintain confidentiality continues after the completion of the 
technical expert review.  
F. Role of the Party  
165. The Party concerned shall cooper ate with the technical expert review team and the 
secretariat and make every reasonable effort to respond to all questions and provide 
additional clarifying information and comments to the technical expert review report in a 
timely manner.  
G. Role of the tec hnical expert review team  
166. Technical experts, in conducting reviews, shall adhere to these MPGs.  
167. Technical experts shall participate  in the technical expert review in their individual 
expert capacity.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
 49 H. Role of the secretariat  
168. The secretariat shall organize technical expert reviews, including the coordination of 
a schedule, logistical and administrative arrangements of the review and provision of review 
tools and materials to the technical expert review team.  
169. The secretariat, together with the lead reviewers referred to in chapter VII.I.3 below, 
shall facilitate communication between the Party and the technical expert review team.  
170. The secretariat, under the guidance of the lead reviewers, shall compile and edit the 
final technical expert review reports.  
171. The s ecretariat shall facilitate annual meetings of the lead reviewers.  
I. Technical expert review team and institutional arrangements  
1. General  
172. Technical experts shall be nominated to the UNFCCC roster of experts by Parties and, 
as appropriate, by intergovernmental  organizations.  
173. Technical experts shall complete the training programme referred to in decision 
18/CMA.1, paragraph 12(c), prior to serving on a technical expert review team.  
174. Each transparency report submitted will be assigned to a single technical expert 
review team with members selected from the UNFCCC roster of experts.  
2. Composition  
175. Technical experts shall have recognized competence in the areas to be reviewed.  
176. The secretariat shall compose a technical review team in such a way that the collective 
skills and competencies of the technical expert review teams correspond to the information 
to be reviewed, as specified in chapter VII.B above, and that the teams include experts for 
each significant GHG inventory sector, mitigation  and support, cooperative ap proaches and 
internationally transferred mitigation outcomes under Artic le 6, and LULUCF, as relevant.  
177. At least one team member should be fluent in a language of the Party under review, 
to the extent possible.  
178. The secretariat shall select the members of th e technical expert review team with a 
view to achieving a balance between experts from developed and developing country Parties. 
The secretariat shall ensure geographical and gender balance among the technical review 
experts, to the extent possible. When s electing members of the technical expert review team 
for centralized group reviews of biennial transparency reports from the LDCs and SIDS, the 
secretariat shall strive to include technical experts from the LDCs and SIDS.  
179. Two successive reviews of a Party’ s submission cannot be performed by the same 
technic al expert review team.  
180. Every effort should be made to select lead reviewers who have participated in reviews 
under the Convention or Art icle 13 of the Paris Agreement.  
181. The technical expert review team sha ll include two lead reviewers, one from a 
developed country Party and another from a developing country Party.  
182. Experts from developing country Parties participating in the technical expert review 
team shall be funded according to the existing procedures f or parti cipation in UNFCCC 
activities.  
3. Lead reviewers  
183. Lead reviewers shall oversee the work of the technical expert review team and act as 
co-lead reviewers , in accordance with these MPGs.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
50  184. Lead reviewers should ensure that the technical expert reviews in which they 
participate are conducted in accordance with the MPGs contained in this chapter. The lead 
reviewers should also ensure the quality and objectivity of the technical expert review and 
provide for the continuity, consistency across Parties and time liness of the technical expert 
reviews.  
185. Lead reviewers shall communicate necessary information to the technical expert 
review team; monitor the progress of the technical expert review; coordinate the submission 
of queries of the technical expert review  team to the Party concerned and coordinate the 
inclusion of the answers in the technical expert review report; give priority to issues raised 
in previous technical expert review reports; and provide technical advice to the members of 
the technical expert revi ew team.  
186. Lead reviewers shall meet annually at a lead reviewer s’ meeting to discuss how to 
improve the quality, efficiency and consistency of technical expert reviews, and develop 
conclusions on these meetings.  
J. Technical expert review report  
187. A technical expert review report shall contain the results of a technical expert review 
in accordance with the scope iden tified in chapter VII.A above.  
188. Technical expert review reports shall be made publicly available on the UNFCCC 
website.  
VIII.  Facilitative, multilateral consideration of progress  
A. Scope  
189. A facilitative, multilateral consideration of progress is undertaken with respect to the 
Party’s efforts under Article 9 of the Paris Agreement and the Party’s respective 
implementation and achievement of its NDC.  
B. Information to be considered  
190. Information to be considered in a facilitative, multilateral consideration of progress 
includes:  
(a) Information submitted by the Party as referred to in paragraph 10(a) and (b) 
and paragraph 10(d) and (e)  above , as applicable;  
(b) The Party’s technical expert review report pursuant to chapter VII.J above;  
(c) Any additional information provided by the Party for the purpose of the 
facilitative, multilateral consideration of progress.  
C. Format and steps  
191. A facilitative, multilateral considerat ion of progress shall include two phases: a 
written question and answer phase, followed by a working group session phase.  
192. The written question and answer phase shall consist of the following steps:  
(a) Any Party may submit written questions to the Party concer ned, consistent 
with the scope identified in chapter VIII.A above ; 
(b) Such questions shall be submitted through an online platform that opens three 
months prior to the working group session. The Party concerned may respond to questions 
that are received later  than two months prior to the working group session at its discretion ; FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
 51 (c) The Party in question shall make best efforts to respond in writing to the 
questions no later than one month prior to the working group session through the online 
platform; those develo ping country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities 
with respect to this provision have the flexibility to instead submit written responses up to 
two weeks prior to the working group session. The Party may indicate in its response i f it 
considers the written question to be outside the scope of a facilitative, multilateral 
consideration of progress ; 
(d) The secretariat shall compile the questions and answers and publish them on 
the UNFCCC website prior to the working group session  phase . 
193. The working group session phase shall take place during sessions  of the Subsidiary 
Body for Implementation (SBI)  and consist of the following steps:  
(a) A presentation by the Party;  
(b) A discussion session focused on the Part y’s presentation and the information 
identified in chapter VIII.B above. All Parties may participate in the discussion session and 
raise questions to the Party concerned. Working group sessions shall be open to  observation 
by registered observers and shall be made publicly accessible  through a n online live 
recording;  
(c) A Party may provide additional written responses to questions raised during 
the discussion session in writing through the online platform within 30 days following the 
session.  
194. During the working group session phase of a facilitativ e, multilateral consideration of 
progress, the LDCs and SIDS may choose to participate as a group.   
195. The secretariat shall establish an online platform to, inter alia:  
(a) Allow a Party to hold a webinar ahead of and/or after an SBI session;  
(b) Facilitate the written question and answer phase;  
(c) Facilitate the working group session phase, including by allowing participation 
during the working group session by experts in remote locations.  
196. The secretariat shall also coordinate the practical arrangements of a facili tative, 
multilateral consideration of progress.  
D. Frequency and timing  
197. A facilitative, multilateral consideration of progress will take place as soon as possible 
following the publication of a Party’s technical expert review report. Should the technical 
expe rt review report not be available within 12 months of the submission of the Party’s 
biennial transparency report, the secretariat will make arrangements for the Party to 
participate in a facilitative, multilateral consideration of progress at the next avai lable 
opportunity.  
198. If a Party does not submit a biennial transparency report within 12 months of the due 
date identified in decision 18 /CMA.1, the secretariat, in consultation with the Party  
concerned, will make arrangements for the Party to participate in  a facilitative, multilateral 
consideration of progress at the next available opportunity.  
E. Record  
199. Within one month of the working group session, the secretariat shall prepare and 
publish on the UNFCCC website a record of the facilitative, multilateral con sideration of 
progress for the Party concerned, which will include:  
(a) Questions submitted and responses provided;  
(b) A copy of the Party’s presentation;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
52  (c) A recording of the working group session;  
(d) A procedural summary of the Party’s facilitative, multilateral co nsideration of 
progress;  
(e) Any additional information generated through the online platform, as available.  
26th plenary meeting  
15 December 2018  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
 53 Decision 1 9/CMA.1  
Matters relating to Article 14 of the Paris Agreement and 
paragraphs 99 –101 of decision 1/CP.21  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
 Recalling  Articles 2 and 14 of the Paris Agreement, decision 1/CP.21, paragraphs 99 –
101, and other relevant Articles of the Paris Agreement and paragraphs of decision 1/CP.21,  
 Recognizing that the global stocktake referred to in Article 14 of the Paris Agreement 
is crucial for enhancing the collective ambition of action and support towards achieving the 
purpose and long -term goals of the Paris Agreement,  
I. Modalities  
Overarching elements  
1. Recalls , as provided in Article 14 , paragraph 1 , of the Paris Agreement, that the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  shall 
periodically take stock of the implementation  of the Paris Agreement to  assess the collective 
progress towards achieving the purpose of the Agreement and its long -term goals, and that it 
shall do so in a comprehensive and facilitative manner, cons idering mitigation, adaptation 
and the means of implementation and support, and in the light of equity and the best available 
science;  
2. Decides  that equity and the best avai lable science will be considered in a Party -driven 
and cross -cutting manner, throughout the global stocktake ; 
3. Also decides  that the global stocktake will consist of the following components:  
(a) Information collection and preparation , focusing on gathering, co mpiling and 
synthesizing information and preparing for conducting the technical assessment referred to 
in paragraph 3(b) below ; 
(b) Technical assessment , focusing on taking stock of the implementation of the 
Paris  Agreement to assess the collective progress towards achieving the purpose and long -
term goals of the Paris Agreement, as well as opportunities for enhanced action and support 
to achieve its purpose and goals ; 
(c) Consideration of outputs, focusing on discussing the implications of the 
findings  of the te chnical assessment with a view to achieving the outcome of the global 
stocktake of informing Parties in updating and enhancing, in a nationally determined manner, 
their actions and support, in accordance with relevant provisions of the Paris Agreement, as 
well as in enhancing international cooperation for climate action ; 
4. Further decides that the global stocktake will be conducted with the assistance of the 
Subsidiary Body for Implementation and the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and 
Technological Advice, wh ich will establish a joint contact group on th e matter;  
5. Resolves  to engage in a technical dialogue that aims to support the work of the joint 
contact group referred to in paragraph 4 above through expert consideration of inputs, as 
identified in the source s of input referred to in paragraphs 36 and 37 below for the global 
stocktake;  
6. Decides  to establish the technical dialogue referred to in paragraph 5 above, which 
will: 
(a) Undertake its work through a focused exchange of views, information and 
ideas in in -session round tables, workshops or other activities;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
54  (b) Organize its work in line with taking stock of the implementation of the Paris 
Agreement to assess the collective progress towards achieving its purpose and long -term 
goals, including under Article 2, parag raph 1(a –c), in the thematic areas of mitigation, 
adaptation and means of implementation and support, noting, in this context, that the global 
stocktake may take into account, as appropriate, efforts related to its work that : 
(i) Address the social and economic consequences a nd impacts of response 
measures;  
(ii) Avert, minimize and address loss and damage associated with the adverse 
effects of climate change;  
(c) Be facilitated by two co -facilitators ,1 who will be responsible for conducting 
the dialogue and for p reparing a factual synthesis report and other outputs of the technical 
assessment, with the assistance of the secretariat;  
7. Requests  the Chairs of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice 
and the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to deve lop guiding questions for all components 
of the global stocktake, including specific thematic and cross -cutting questions, one session 
of the subsidiary bodies prior to the relevant activities under the global stocktake being 
carried out;  
8. Decides  that the information collection and preparation component of the global 
stocktake will commence one session before the start of the technical assessment, which will 
take place during the two (or depending on the timing of the publication of the 
Intergovernmental Pa nel on Climate Change reports, three) successive sessions of the 
subsidiary bodies preceding the sixth session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement (November 2023) , during which the 
consideration of outputs will take place, with the cycle repeating every five years thereafter;  
9. Also decides that the global stocktake will be conducted in a comprehensive, 
facilitative, effective and efficient manner, avoiding duplication of work and taking into 
account t he results of relevant work conducted under the Paris Agreement, the Convention 
and the Kyoto Protocol;  
10. Further decides  that the global stocktake will be a Party -driven process conducted in 
a transparent manner and with the participation of non -Party stake holders , and that, to support 
such effective and equitable participation, all inputs will be fully accessible by Parties, 
including online, as referred to in paragraph 21 below;  
11. Decides that the participation of Parties in the global stocktake should be en sured 
through the provision of adequate funding for the participation and representation of 
developing country Parties in all activities under the global stocktake, including the technical 
dialogue, workshops, round tables and sessions of the subsidiary bo dies and the Conference 
of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement that feature global 
stocktake activities, in accordance with existing practices;  
12. Invites  developed country Parties to mobilize support for capacity -building  so that the 
least developed countries, small island developing States and other developing countries can 
effectively participate in the global stocktake and take up relevant global stocktake 
information;  
13. Decides  that the outputs of the components of the global stocktake referred to in 
paragraph 3 above should summarize opportunities and challenges for enhancing action and 
support in the light of equity and the best available science, as well as lessons learned and  
good practices, with a view to achieving the outcome identified in Article 14, paragraph 3, 
of the Paris Agreement;  
14. Emphasizes  that the outputs of the global stocktake should focus on taking stock of 
the implementation of the Paris Agreement to assess col lective progress, have no individual 
Party focus, and include non -policy prescriptive consideration of collective progress that 
Parties can use to inform the updating and enhancing, in a nationally determined manner, of 
                                                           
 1 One from a developing country Party and one from a developed country  Party selected by Parties . FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
 55 their actions and support in accorda nce with relevant provisions of the Paris Agreement as 
well as in enhancing international cooperation for climate action;  
15. Decides  to consider refining  the procedural and logistical elements of the overall 
global stocktake process on the basis of experience  gained from the first and subsequent 
global stocktakes, as appropriate;  
16. Requests  the Chairs of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice 
and the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to organize the global stocktake in a flexible 
and approp riate manner, to work on identifying opportunities for learning -by-doing, 
including for assessing collective progress, and to take the necessary steps for the 
consideration of inputs as they become available;  
17. Invites  Parties to present their nationally determined contributions, informed by the 
outcome of the global stocktake, at a special event held under the auspices of the Secretary -
General of the United Nations;  
18. Recognizes that other related events within and outsid e the UNFCCC can contribute 
to the global stocktake and the implementation of its outcome;  
Information collection and preparation  
19. Requests  the Chairs of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice 
and the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to issue a call for the inputs referred to in 
paragraphs 36 and 37 below, taking into account that such inputs should be submitted at least 
three months before their consideration in the technical assessment;  
20. Decides  that the information collection and preparation component of the global 
stocktake will end no later than six months before the consideration of outputs to ensure 
timely consideration of inputs, unless critical information that requires consideration emerg es 
after the cut -off date;  
21. Requests  the secretariat to facilitate online availability of all inputs to the global 
stocktake from Parties, by thematic area, and to organize a webinar to clarify the 
methodologies and assumptions used to aggregate the inputs,  to be held after the deadline for 
submission of inputs referred to in paragraph 19 above and prior to the commencement of 
the technical assessment;  
22. Invites  the secretariat to start compiling for the technical assessment the most up -to-
date inputs from the  sources identified in paragraph 37 below two sessions of the subsidiary 
bodies prior to th e assessment;  
23. Requests  the secretariat, under the guidance of the co -facilitators referred to in 
paragraph 6(c) above, to prepare for the technical assessment:  
(a) A syn thesis report on the information identified in paragraph 3 6(a) below, 
taking into account previous experience in preparing such reports;  
(b) A synthesis report on the state of adaptation efforts, experience and priorities , 
summarizing the most recent inform ation identified in paragraph 36 (c) below;  
(c) A synthesis report on the overall effect of nationally determined contributions 
communicated by Parties , summarizing the most recent information identified in paragraph 
36(b) below;  
(d) A synthesis report on the inform ation identified in paragraph 36 (d) below;  
24. Invites  the relevant constituted bodies and forums and other institutional arrangements 
under or serving the Paris Agreement and/or the Convention2 to prepare for the technical 
                                                           
 2 Currently, the constituted bodies  and forums are the  Adaptation Committee, the Least Developed 
Country Expert Group, the Technology Executive Committee , the Standing Committee on Finance, 
the Paris Committee on Capacity -building , the Executive  Committee  of the Warsaw International 
Mechanism for Loss a nd Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts , the Consultative Group of 
Experts, the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures , and the Local 
Communities and Indigenous Peoples Platform  Facilitative Working Group.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
56  assessment, with the assistance of t he secretariat, synthesis reports on the information 
identified in paragraph 36 below in their areas of expertise;  
25. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice and the 
Subsidiary Body for Implementation to identify potential informa tion gaps in relation to the 
global stocktake and, where necessary and feasible, to make requests for additional input, 
taking into account the cut -off date for the information collection and preparation component 
of the global stocktake and the need to co nsider critical information, and taking into account 
the relevant gaps identified in the reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 
and the ir impacts in relation to the purpose and long -term goals of the Paris Agreement;  
Technical assessment  
26. Notes  that, to make effective use of time, the technical assessment could overlap with 
the information collection and preparation component of the global stocktake;  
27. Confirms  that all the inputs and topics, in particular the linkage among various issues, 
should be discussed in a balanced, holistic and comprehensive manner with a balanced 
allocation of time between thematic areas, taking into account equity considerations and the 
best available science;  
28. Recognizes , taking into consideration the advice provide d by the Subsidiary Body for 
Scientific and Technological Advice3 pursuant to decision  1/CP.21, paragraph 100, that the 
assessments of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change should be considered in an 
effective and balanced manner, taking into accou nt lessons learned from past experience;  
29. Also recognizes  that a dialogue between Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 
experts and Parties through Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice –
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change special  events should be used to enable a 
focused scientific and technical exchange of information on the findings in 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change products in an open and transparent manner , 
and that the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technologic al Advice –Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change Joint Working Group should continue to be used to enhance 
communication and coordination between the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and 
Technological Advice and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Chan ge in the context of 
the global stocktake;  
30. Decides  that the technical dialogue  referred to in paragraph 6 above will be open, 
inclusive, transparent and facilitative , and will allow Parties to engage and hold discuss ions 
with the constituted bodies and for ums and other institutional arrangements under or serving 
the Paris Agreement and/or the Convention and experts and to consider inputs and assess 
collective progress ; 
31. Also decides  that the co -facilitators of the technical dialogue will summarize its 
outputs in summary reports, taking into account equity and the best available science, for 
each thematic area referred to in paragraph 6(b) above and an overarching factual synthesis 
of these reports in a cross -cutting manner;  
32. Further  decides that the forum on the impact of the implementation of response 
measures will summarize its outcome in accordance with the relevant elements of its 
modalities, work programme and functions pursuant t o decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 34;  
Consideration  of outputs  
33. Decides  that the consideration of outputs will consist of high -level events where the 
findings of the technical assessment will be presented and their implications discussed and 
considered by Parties, and that the events will be chaired by a high -level committee 
consisting of the Presidencies of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Paris Agreement and the Chairs of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and 
Technological Advice and the Subsidiary Body for Implementation;  
                                                           
 3 See document FCCC/SBSTA/2016/4, paragraph 56.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
 57 34. Also decides  that the outputs of this component of the global stocktake  should:  
(a) Identify  opportunities for and challenges in enhancing action and support for 
collective progress in relation to the thematic areas of the global stocktake referred to in 
paragraph 6(b) above, as well as possible measures and good practices and international 
cooperation and related good practices;  
(b) Summarize key political messages, including recommendations arising from 
the events referred to in paragraph 3 3 above for strengthening ac tion and enhancing support;  
(c) Be referenced in a decision for consideration and adoption by the Conference 
of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  and/or a declaration ; 
II. Sources of input  
35. Decides  that the sources of input fo r the global stocktake should inform the thematic 
areas referred to in paragraph 6(b) above;  
36. Also decides  that the sources of input for the global stocktake will consider 
information at a collective level on:  
(a) The state of greenhouse gas emissions by sourc es and removals by sinks and 
mitigation efforts undertaken by Parties, including the information referred to in Article 13, 
paragraph 7(a), and Article 4, paragraphs 7, 15 and 19, of the Paris Agreement;  
(b) The overall effect of Parties’  nationally determined  contributions and overall 
progress made by Parties towards the implementation of their nationally determined 
contributions, including the information referred to in Article 13, paragraph 7(b) , of the Paris 
Agreement ; 
(c) The state of  adaptation efforts, support, experience and priorities, including the 
information referred to in Article 7, paragraphs 2, 10, 11 and 14, of the Paris Agreement, and 
the reports referred to in Article 13, paragraph 8, of the Paris Agreement;  
(d) The finance  flows, including the information referred to in Article 2, 
paragraph  1(c),  and means of implementation and support and  mobilization and provision of 
support , including the information referred to in Article 9, paragraphs 4 and 6, Article 10, 
paragraph 6, Arti cle 11, paragraph 3, and Article 13, in particular paragraphs 9 and 10, of the 
Paris Agreement . This should include information from the latest biennial assessment and 
overview of climate finance flows of the Standing Committee on Finance;  
(e) Efforts to enhan ce understanding, action and support, on a cooperative and 
facilitative basis, related to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated 
with the adverse effects of climate change ; 
(f) Barriers  and challenges, including finance, technology4 and capacity -building 
gaps, faced by developing countries;  
(g) Good  practices, experience and potential opportunities to enhance 
international cooperation on mitigation and adaptation and to increase support under 
Article  13, parag raph 5, of the Paris Agreement;  
(h) Fairness  considerations , including equity, as communicated by Parties in their 
nationally determined contributions ; 
37. Decides  that the sources of input for the global stocktake include:  
(a) Reports and communications from Parties, in particular those submitted under 
the Paris Agreement and the Convention;  
(b) The latest reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, pursuant 
to decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 99;  
                                                           
 4 Including outputs of the periodic assessment of the Technology Mechan ism as referred to in decision 
16/CMA.1.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
58  (c) Reports  of the subsidiary bodies, pursuant to decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 99;  
(d) Reports from releva nt constituted bodies and forums and other institutional 
arrangements under or serving the Paris Agreement  and/or the Convention ; 
(e) The synthesis reports by the secretariat referred to in paragraph 23 above;  
(f) Relevant  reports from United Nations agencies and other international 
organizations, which  should be supportive of the UNFCCC process;  
(g) Voluntary submissions from Parties, including on inputs to inform equity 
consideration s under the global stocktake;  
(h) Relevant repo rts from regional groups and institutions;  
(i) Submissions  from non -Party stakeholders and UNFCCC observer 
organizations;  
38. Invites  the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological  Advice  to complement  
the non -exhaustive lists in paragraphs 3 6 and 3 7 above at its session held prior to the 
information collection and preparation component of the global stocktake, as appropriate, 
taking into account the thematic areas of the global stocktake and the importance of 
leveraging national -level reporting . 
26th plenary meeting  
15 December 2018  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
 59 Decision 20/CMA.1  
Modalities and procedures for the effective operation of the 
committee to facilitate implementation and promote 
compliance referred to in Article 15, paragraph 2, of the 
Paris Agreement  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement ,  
  Recalling  Article 15 of the Paris Agreement and decision 1/CP.21, paragraphs 102 
and 103,   
1. Adopts the modalities and procedures for the effective operation of the committee 
referred to in Article 15, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement as contained in the annex;  
2. Decides  to undertake, at th e seventh session of the Conference of the Parties serving 
as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement (2024), the first review of the modalities 
and procedures referred to in paragraph 1 above on the basis of experience gained with their 
implemen tation and taking into account any recommendations of the committee referred to 
in paragraph 1 above, and to consider conducting further reviews on a regular basis ;  
3. Takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat pursuant to the provisions contained in the annex ; 
4. Requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources . 
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
60  Annex  
Modalities and procedures for the effective operation of the 
committee referred to in Article 15, paragraph 2, of the Paris 
Agreement  
I. Purpose, principles, nature, functions and scope  
1. The mechanism to facilitate implementation of and promote compliance with the 
provisions of the Paris Agreement established under Article 15 of the Agreement consists of 
a committee (hereinafter referred to as the Committee).  
2. The Comm ittee shall be expert -based and facilitative in nature and function in a 
manner that is transparent, non -adversarial and non -punitive. The Committee shall pay 
particular attention to the respective national capabilities and circumstances of Parties.  
3. The C ommittee’s work shall be guided by the provisions of the Paris Agreement, 
including its Article 2.  
4. In carrying out its work, the Committee shall strive to avoid duplication of effort, shall 
neither function as an enforcement or dispute settlement mechanism, nor impose penalties or 
sanctions, and shall respect national sovereignty.  
II. Institutional arrange ments  
5. The Committee shall consist of 12 members with recognized competence in relevant 
scientific, technical, socioeconomic or legal fields to be elected by the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement (CMA) o n the basis of 
equitable geographical representation, with 2 members each from the five regional groups of 
the United Nations and 1 member each from the small island developing States and the least 
developed countries, taking into account the goal of gende r balance.  
6. The CMA shall elect members of the Committee as well as an alternate for each 
member, taking into account the expert -based nature of the Committee and striving to reflect 
the diversity of expertise referred to in paragraph 5 above.  
7. Members and  alternate members shall be elected to the Committee to serve for a 
period of three years and for a maximum of two consecutive terms.  
8. At CMA 2 ( December  2019), six members and six alternate members shall be elected 
to the Committee for an initial term of two years and six members and six alternate members 
for a term of three years. Thereafter, the CMA shall elect at its relevant regular sessions six 
members and six alternate members for a term of three years. The members and alternate 
members shall remain in office until their successors are elected.  
9. If a member of the Committee resigns or is otherwise unable to complete the assigned 
term or to perform the functions in the Committee, an expert from the same Party shall be 
named by that Party to replace sai d member for the remainder of the unexpired term.  
10. Members and alternate members of the Committee shall serve in their individual 
expert capacity.  
11. The Committee shall elect from among its members two Co -Chairs for a period of 
three years, taking into acco unt the need to ensure equitable geographical representation. The 
Co-Chairs shall perform the functions to be elaborated in the rules of procedure of the 
Committee referred to in paragraphs 17 and 18 below.  
12. Unless otherwise decided, the Committee shall me et at least twice a year, beginning 
in 2020. In scheduling its meetings, the Committee should take into account the desirability 
of holding its meetings in conjunction with sessions of the subsidiary bodies serving the Paris 
Agreement, as appropriate.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
 61 13. Only members and alternate members of the Committee and secretariat officials shall 
be present during the elaboration and adoption of a decision of the Committee.  
14. The Committee, any Party or others involved in the process of the consideration by 
the Committee  shall protect the confidentiality of information received in confidence.  
15. The adoption of decisions by the Committee shall require a quorum of 10 of the 
members to be present.  
16. The Committee shall make every effort to reach agreement on any decision by 
consensus. If all efforts at reaching consensus have been exhausted, as a last resort, the 
decision may be adopted by at least three quarters of the members present and voting.  
17. The Committee shall develop rules of procedure with a view to recommending them 
to the CMA for consideration and adoption at CMA 3 (November 2020), informed by the 
principles of transparency, facilitation, the non -adversarial and non -punitive function, and 
paying particular attention to the respective national capabilities and circumstan ces of Parties.  
18. The rules of procedure referred to in paragraph 17 above will address any matters 
necessary for the proper and effective functioning of the Committee, including the role of the 
Committee Co -Chairs, conflict of interest, any additional timel ines related to the 
Committee’s work, procedural stages and timelines for the Committee’s work, and reasoning 
in decisions of the Committee.  
III. Initiation and process  
19. In exercising its functions referred to in paragraphs 20 and 22 below, and subject to 
these modalities and procedures, the Committee shall apply the relevant rules of procedure 
to be developed pursuant to paragraphs 17 and 18 above and shall be guided by the following:  
(a) Nothing in the work of the Committee may change the legal character of the 
provisions of the Paris Agreement;  
(b) In considering how to facilitate implementation and promote compliance, the 
Committee shall endeavour to constructively engage with and consult the Party concerned at 
all stages of the process, including by inviting written submissions and providing 
opportunities to comment;  
(c) The Committee shall pay particular attention to the respective national 
capabilities and circumstances of Parties, recognizing the special circumstances of the least 
developed countries and small island d eveloping States, at all stages of the process, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Paris Agreement, including in determining how to 
consult with the Party concerned, what assistance can be provided to the Party concerned to 
support its engagement wit h the Committee, and what measures are appropriate to facilitate 
implementation and promote compliance in each situation;  
(d) The Committee should take into account the work being undertaken by other 
bodies and under other arrangements as well as through forum s serving or established under 
the Paris Agreement with a view to avoiding duplication of mandated work;  
(e) The Committee should take into account considerations related to the impacts 
of response measures.  
20. The Committee should consider issues related to, as appropriate, a Party’s 
implementation of or compliance with the provisions of the Paris Agreement on the basis of 
a written submission from that Party with respect to its own implementation of and/or 
compliance with any provision of the Paris Agreement.  
21. The Committee will undertake a preliminary examination of the submission within 
the timeline to be elaborated in the rules of procedure referred to in paragraphs 17 and 18 
above with a view to verifying that the submission contains sufficient information, in cluding 
on whether the matter relates to the Party’s own implementation of or compliance with a 
provision of the Paris Agreement.  
22. The Committee:  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
62  (a) Will initiate the consideration of issues in cases where a Party has not:  
(i) Communicated or maintained a national ly determined contribution under 
Article 4 of the Paris Agreement, based on the most up -to-date status of 
communication in the public registry referred to in Article 4, paragraph 12, of the 
Paris Agreement;  
(ii) Submitted a mandatory report or communication of information under Article 
13, paragraphs 7 and 9, or Article 9, paragraph 7, of the Paris Agreement;  
(iii) Participated in the facilitative, multilateral consideration of progress, based on 
information provided by the secretariat;  
(iv) Submitted a mandatory communica tion of information under Article 9, 
paragraph 5, of the Paris Agreement;  
(b) May, with the consent of the Party concerned, engage in a facilitative 
consideration of issues in cases of significant and persistent inconsistencies of the 
information submitted by a Party pursuant to Article 13, paragraphs 7 and 9, of the Paris 
Agreement with the modalities, procedures and guidelines referred to in Article 13, paragraph 
13, of the Paris Agreement. This consideration will be based on the recommendations made 
in the f inal technical expert review reports, prepared under Article 13, paragraphs 11 and 12, 
of the Agreement, together with any written comments provided by the Party during the 
review. In its consideration of such matters, the Committee shall take into account  Article 13, 
paragraphs 14 and 15, of the Agreement, as well as the flexibilit ies provided in the provisions 
of the modalities, procedures and guidelines under Article 13 of the Paris Agreement for 
those developing country Parties that need it in the light  of their capacities.  
23. The consideration of the issues referred to in paragraph 22(a) above will not address 
the content of the contributions, communications, information and reports referred to in 
paragraph 22(a)(i –iv) above.  
24. Where the Committee decides to  initiate a consideration as referred to in paragraph  22 
above, it shall notify the Party concerned and request it to provide the necessary information 
on the matter.  
25. With respect to the consideration by the Committee of matters initiated in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 20 or 22 above and further to the rules of procedure referred 
to in paragraphs 17 and 18 above:  
(a) The Party concerned may participate in the discussions of the Committee, 
except during the Committee’s elaboration and adoption o f a decision;  
(b) If so requested in writing by the Party concerned, the Committee shall hold a 
consultation during the meeting at which the matter with respect to that Party is to be 
considered;  
(c) In the course of its consideration, the Committee may obtain add itional 
information as referred to in paragraph 35 below or, as appropriate and in consultation with 
the Party concerned, invite representatives of relevant bodies and arrangements under or 
serving the Paris Agreement to participate in its relevant meeting s; 
(d) The Committee shall send a copy of its draft findings, draft measures and any 
draft recommendations to the Party concerned and shall take into account any comments 
made by the Party when finalizing those findings, measures and recommendations.  
26. The Commi ttee will accord flexibility with regard to timelines of the procedures under 
Article 15 as may be needed by Parties, paying particular attention to their respective national 
capabilities and circumstances.  
27. Subject to the availability of financial resource s, assistance should be provided, upon 
request, to developing country Parties concerned to enable their necessary participation in 
the relevant meetings of the Committee.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
 63 IV. Measures and outputs  
28. In identifying the appropriate measures, findings or recommendations, the Committee 
shall be informed by the legal nature of the relevant provisions of the Paris Agreement, shall 
take into account the comments received from the Party concerned and shall pay particular 
attention to the national capabilities a nd circumstances of the Party concerned. Special 
circumstances of small island developing States and the least developed countries, as well as 
situations of force majeure, should also be recognized, where relevant.  
29. The Party concerned may provide to the Co mmittee information on particular capacity 
constraints, needs or challenges, including in relation to support received, for the 
Committee’s consideration in its identification of appropriate measures, findings or 
recommendations.  
30. With a view to facilitatin g implementation and promoting compliance, the Committee 
shall take appropriate measures. These may include the following:  
(a) Engage in a dialogue with the Party concerned with the purpose of identifying 
challenges, making recommendations and sharing informat ion, including in relation to 
accessing finance, technology and capacity -building support, as appropriate;  
(b) Assist the Party concerned in the engagement with the appropriate finance, 
technology and capacity -building bodies or arrangements under or serving t he Paris 
Agreement in order to identify possible challenges and solutions;  
(c) Make recommendations to the Party concerned with regard to challenges and 
solutions referred to in paragraph 30(b) above and communicate such recommendations, with 
the consent of th e Party concerned, to the relevant bodies or arrangements, as appropriate;  
(d) Recommend the development of an action plan and, if so requested, assist the 
Party concerned in developing the plan;  
(e) Issue findings of fact in relation to matters of implementation and compliance 
referred to in paragraph 22(a) above.  
31. The Party concerned is encouraged to provide information to the Committee on the 
progress made in implementing the action plan referred to in paragraph 30(d) above.  
V. Consideration of systemic issues  
32. The C ommittee may identify issues of a systemic nature with respect to the 
implementation of and compliance with the provisions of the Paris Agreement faced by a 
number of Parties and bring such issues and, as appropriate, any recommendations to the 
attention o f the CMA for its consideration.  
33. The CMA may, at any time, request the Committee to examine issues of a systemic 
nature. Following its consideration of the issue, the Committee shall report back to the CMA 
and, where appropriate, make recommendations.  
34. In addressing systemic issues, the Committee shall not address matters that relate to 
the implementation of and compliance with the provisions of the Paris Agreement by an 
individual Party.  
VI. Information  
35. In the course of its work, the Committee may seek expert a dvice, and seek and receive 
information from processes, bodies, arrangements and forums under or serving the Paris 
Agreement.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
64  VII. Relationship with the Conference of the Parties serving 
as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
36. Pursuant to Article 1 5 of the Paris Agreement, the Committee shall report annually to 
the CMA.  
VIII.  Secretariat  
37. The secretariat referred to in Article 17 of the Paris Agreement shall serve as the 
secretariat of the Committee.  
26th plenary meeting  
15 December 2018  FCCC/PA/CMA/2018/3/Add.2  
 65 Resolution 3/CMA.1 
  Expression of gratitude to the Government of the Republic  of 
Poland  and the people of the city of Katowice  
Resolution submitted by Fiji 
The Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement , 
  Having met in Katowice  from 2 to 14 December 2018 , 
1. Express their profound gratitude to the Government of the Republic of Poland  for 
having made it possible for the twenty -fourth  session of the Conference of the Parties, the 
fourteenth session of the Co nference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to 
the Kyoto Protocol and the third  part of the first session of the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement to be held in Katowice ; 
2. Request the Government of the Republic of Poland  to convey to the city and people 
of Katowice  the gratitude of the Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement for the hospitality and warmth 
extended to the participants.  
28th plenary meeting  
15 Dece mber 201 8 
      
 
GE.20 -04099(E)  

Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting  
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
  Report of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement on its second 
session, held in Madrid from 2 to 15 December 2019  
 Addendum  
 Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its second  session  
Contents  
  Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
 Decision  Page  
  1/CMA.2  Chile Madrid Time for Action  ................................ ..........................   2 
  2/CMA.2  Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated  
with Climate Change Impacts and its 2019 review  ...........................   4 
  3/CMA.2  Initial institutional arrangements for capacity -building under the  
Paris Agreement ................................ ................................ ................   10 
  4/CMA. 2 Workplan of the forum on the impact of the implementation of  
response measures and its Katowice Committee of Experts on the  
Impacts of the Implementation of Response Measures  .....................    11 
  5/CMA.2  Matters relating to the Standing Committ ee on Finance  ...................   21 
  6/CMA.2  Guidance to the Green Climate Fund  ................................ ................   23 
  7/CMA.2  Guidance to the Global Environment Facility  ................................ ..  24 
  8/CMA.2  Enhancing climate technology development and transfer to  
support implementation of the Paris Agreement  ...............................   25 
  9/CMA.2  Matters relating to Article 6 of the Paris Agreement  ........................   26 
Resolution  
  1/CMA.2  Expression of gr atitude to the Government of the Republic of Chile,  
the Government of the Kingdom of Spain and the people of the  
city of Madrid  ................................ ................................ ...................   27  United Nations  FCCC /PA/CMA/2019/6/Add.1  
 
 
 
  
Distr.: General  
16 March 2020  
 
Original: English  
FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/6/Add.1  
2    Decision 1/CMA.2  
  Chile Madrid Time for Action  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement ,  
Acknowledging that climate change is a common concern o f humankind, Parties 
should, when taking action to address climate change, respect, promote and consider their 
respective obligations on human rights, the right to health, the rights of indigenous peoples, 
local communities, migrants, children, persons wit h disabilities and people in vulnerable 
situations and the right to development, as well as gender equality, empowerment of women 
and intergenerational equity,  
Recalling Article 2, paragraph 2 , Article 3 and Article 4, paragraph 3 , of the Paris 
Agreement ,  
Encouraging Parties to use the opportunity in 2020 to reflect the highest possible 
ambition in response to th e urgency of addressing climate change and with a view to 
achieving the long -term goals set out in Article 2 and Article 7, paragraph 1 , of the Paris 
Agreement , 
Recalling decision 3/CMA.1,  
1. Welcomes  decision  1/CP.25;  
2. Notes  with concern  the state of the global climate  system;  
3. Recognizes  that action taken to address  climate change is most effective if it is based 
on best available science a nd continually re -evaluated in the light of new findings;  
4. Acknowledges  the growing urgency of enhancing ambition and responding to the 
threat of climate change;  
5. Re-emphasizes  with serious concern  the urgent need to address the significant gap 
between the aggregate effect of Parties’ mitigation efforts in terms of global annual emissions 
of greenhouse gases by 2020 and aggregate emission pathways consistent with holding the 
increase in the global average temperature to well below 2 °C above pre -industrial l evels and 
pursuing efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5 °C above pre -industrial levels;  
6. Recalls  that each Party’s successive nationally determined contribution will represent 
a progression beyond the Party’s then current nationally determined c ontribution and reflect 
its highest possible ambition, reflecting its common but differentiated responsibilities and 
respective capabilities, in the light of different national circumstances;  
7. Also r ecalls  the request to Parties contained in decision 1/CP.2 1, paragraph s 23–24, 
and urges  Parties to consider the gap referred to in paragraph 5  above  with a view to reflecting 
their highest possible ambition when responding to this request;  
8. Reminds  Parties that have not yet communicated their nationally determine d 
contributions pursuant to Article 4, paragraph 2, and decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 22, to 
do so; 
9. Reiterates  its strong encouragement to Parties to provide the information necessary 
for clarity, transparency and understanding of nationally determined contributions, described 
in the annex to decision 4/CMA.1;  
10. Recalls  the request  contained  in decision 1/CP.21 , paragraph 25 , to the secretariat to 
prepare a synthesis report, and requests  the secretariat to make th e report available to the 
Conference of the Parties at its twenty -sixth session (November 2020);  FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/6/Add.1  
 3 11. Reiterates  the invitation to Parti es to communicate to the secretariat, by 2020, mid -
century long -term low greenhouse gas emission development strategies in accordance with 
Article 4, paragraph 19, of the Paris Agreement;1 
12. Encourages  Parties to submit their first adaptation communication a s soon as possible, 
in accordance with decision 9/CMA.1, so as to provide timely input to the first global 
stocktake;  
13. Calls on  Parties to engage in adaptation planning processes and the implementation 
of actions, including the development or enhancement of  relevant plans, policies and/or 
contributions in accordance with Article 7, paragraph 9, of the Paris Agreement, with a view 
to continu ing to make progress towards the global goal on adaptation of enhancing adaptive 
capacity, strengthening  resilience and reducing vulnerability to climate change;  
14. Requests  the Adaptation Committee to consider approaches to reviewing the overall 
progress made in achieving the global goal on adaptation and to reflect the outcome of this 
consideration in its 2021 annual report;  
15. Underlines  the importance of implementing commitments under the Paris Agreement 
related to finance, technology transfer and capacity -building to address the mitigation and 
adaptation needs and priorities of developing countries;  
16. Urges  developed country Pa rties to provide financial resources to assist developing 
country Parties with respect to both mitigation and adaptation, in continuation of their 
existing obligations under the Convention, and encourages  other Parties to provide or 
continue to provide suc h support voluntarily;  
17. Recalls  that the provision of scaled -up financial resources should aim to achieve a 
balance between adaptation and mitigation, taking into account country -driven strategies, and 
the priorities and needs of developing country Parties,  especially those that are particularly 
vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change and have significant capacity constraints, 
such as the least developed countries and small island developing States, considering the need 
for public and grant -based  resources for adaptation;  
18. Takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraph 10 above;  
19. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
8th plenary meeting  
15 December 2019  
                                                           
 1 Decision 1/CP.21, para. 35.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/6/Add.1  
4     Decision 2/CMA.2  
Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage 
associated with Climate Change Impacts and its 2019 review  
 The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement ,1 
 Recalling decision 2/CP.19, whereby the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss 
and Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts was established to address loss and 
damage associated with the impacts of climate change, including extreme events and slow 
onset events , in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of 
climate change,  
 Also recalling decisions 3/CP.18, 2/CP.19, 2/CP.20, 1/CP.21, 2/CP.21, 3/CP.22, 
4/CP.22, 5/CP.23 and 10/CP.24,  
 Further recalling Article 8 of the Paris Ag reement,  
 Being aware of the relevant provisions of decisions 18/CMA.1 and 19/CMA.1,  
 Acknowledging  that climate change is a common concern of humankind, Parties 
should, when taking action to address climate change, respect, promote and consider their 
respective obligations on human rights, the right to health, the rights of indigenous peoples, 
local co mmunities, migrants, children, persons with disabilities and people in vulnerable 
situations and the right to development, as well as gender equality, empowerment of women 
and intergenerational equity,  
 Reaffirming the role of the Warsaw International Mech anism in promoting the 
implementation of approaches to avert, minimize and address loss and damage associated 
with climate change impacts in a comprehensive, integrated and coherent manner,  
 Also reaffirming  the role of the Executive Committee of the War saw International 
Mechanism in guiding the implementation of the functions of the Mechanism,  
 Recognizing the current insufficient level of mitigation and that reducing greenhouse 
gas emissions reduces the risks associated with the adverse effects of cli mate change,  
 Also recognizing the importance of the Warsaw International Mechanism for averting, 
minimizing and addressing loss and damage in developing countries that are particularly 
vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change,  
 Recalling  that the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -second session 
recommended that the next review of the Warsaw International Mechanism be held in 2019,2  
 Acknowledging the Executive Committee’s decision to identify follow -up activities to 
the 2019 review of t he Warsaw International Mechanism under strategic workstream (e) of 
its five -year rolling workplan at its first meeting of 2020,  
 Also acknowledging that the Executive Committee agreed to discuss its role in and 
contribution to the global stocktake at its  future meetings, starting with its first meeting of 
2020,  
 Noting  that the Executive Committee will evaluate progress in implementing its five -
year rolling workplan in 2020 and at regular intervals at its subsequent meetings,  
 Having considered  the effe ctiveness and efficiency of the Warsaw International 
Mechanism, as well as barriers and gaps, challenges and opportunities, and lessons learned 
                                                           
 1 It is noted that discussions related to the governance of the Warsaw International Mechanism did not 
produce an outcome; this is without prejudice to further consideration of this matter . 
 2 Decision 4/CP.22, para. 2(b).  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/6/Add.1  
 5 in relation to the Mechanism, on the basis of the terms of reference for the 2019 review of 
the Mechanism,3  
1. Welcomes  the report of the Executive Committee of the Warsaw International 
Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts, including the 
recommendations contained therein;4 
2. Also welcomes the adoption of the plans  of action of the task fo rce on displacement 
and the technical expert group on comprehensive risk management by the Executive 
Committee during its 10th meeting;  
3. Appreciates  the contribution of all organizations and experts to the work of the 
Executive Committee, the task force on displacement and the technical expert group on 
comprehensive risk management;  
4. Acknowledges the catalytic role of the Warsaw International Mechanism  in mobilizing 
and connecting relevant stakeholders;  
5. Also acknowledges the progress, achievements and successful practices  in 
implementing the Warsaw International Mechanism since 2013, while noting areas for 
improvement and shortcomings;  
6. Further acknowled ges that further work  is needed to effectively operationalize the 
functions of the Warsaw International Mechanism as set out in decision 2/CP.19, 
paragraph  5; 
7. Agrees that further guidance could contribute  to improving the effectiveness and 
efficiency of th e Warsaw International Mechanism, including its timeliness, relevance, 
visibility, coherence, complementarity, comprehensiveness, responsiveness and resourcing 
and the delivery and usefulness of its products and outputs;  
8. Also agrees that the best available  science, particularly in reports of the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, should inform  approaches to averting, 
minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with climate change impacts;   
9. Recognizes the importance and value of indigenous, traditional and local knowledge ; 
10. Also recognizes the need to enhance the relevance, usefulness and dissemination of 
the outputs of the Warsaw International Mechanism to enable Parties and stakeholders to 
easily use and integrate these outputs into planning  and implementing approaches to averting, 
minimizing and addressing loss and damage ; 
11. Encourages  the Executive Committee to communicate its outputs in formats that are 
easy to translate, adapt and access in different contexts  and by different users;  
12. Requests the Executive Committee to identify modalities for fostering the sharing of 
relevant knowledg e and experience among practitioners and vulnerable countries in an 
interactive and practical manner;  
13. Encourages Parties to establish a loss and damage contact point through their 
respective national focal point;5 
14. Invites Parties to promote coherence in approaches to averting, minimizing and 
addressing loss and damage when formulating and implementing  relevant national plans, 
strategies and frameworks, and creating enabling environments, including by considering 
future clim ate risk, reducing exposure and vulnerability, increasing resilience and 
coordinated action, and monitoring progress;  
15. Recognizes the importance of particularly vulnerable developing countries and 
segments of the population that are already vulnerable owing  to geography, socioeconomic 
status, livelihood, gender, age, indigenous or minority status, or disability, as well as the 
ecosystems they depend on, in the implementation of the Warsaw International Mechanism;  
                                                           
 3 FCCC/SBI/2019/9, annex I, and FCCC/SBSTA/2019/2, annex.  
 4 FCCC/SB/2019/5 and Add.1.  
 5 Pursuant to decision 4/CP.22, para. 4(d).  FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/6/Add.1  
6  16. Encourages  the Executive Committee to take i nto account when updating its five -year 
rolling workplan areas of work that may require short -, medium - and long -term consideration 
and efforts, including in relation to sustainable development  and transformative change, in 
the context of the work of each of its thematic expert groups;  
17. Recognizes  the importance of integrating the consideration of approaches to averting, 
minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate 
change into relevant work under and outside the Co nvention and the Paris Agreement;  
18. Requests  the secretariat, under the guidance of the Executive Committee, to organize 
meetings in conjunction with relevant regional forums, engaging relevant constituted bodies, 
networks and work programmes under the Conve ntion and the Paris Agreement, within their 
respective mandates and workplans and  in partnership with relevant organizations, to identify 
ways of integrating loss and damage into relevant work and guidelines, as appropriate;  
19. Encourages  relevant constituted  bodies, networks  and work programmes under the 
Convention and the Paris Agreement, within their respective mandates and workplans and in 
collaboration with the Executive Committee, to integrate loss and damage, where 
appropriate, into their work;  
20. Acknowle dges the importance of the involvement of and collaboration with relevant 
constituted bodies and expert groups, organizations  and institutions, under and outside the 
Convention and the Paris Agreement, to enhance coordination, synergies and linkages;  
21. Reque sts the Executive Committee and its thematic expert groups, in undertaking their 
work, to draw upon the work of and involve, as appropriate, relevant constituted bodies, 
networks and work programmes, as appropriate;  
22. Encourages the Executive Committee to dr aw upon the work, information and 
expertise of bodies under the Convention and the Paris Agreement, as well as on international 
processes, such as the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Sendai Framework 
for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015 –2030;  
23. Invites the Executive Committee, acknowledging  the need to strengthen risk 
assessment, to engage relevant experts and collect and disseminate  information on 
methodologies available for integrating long -term assessment, including those associated 
with the qu antification of risks, into comprehensive climate risk management approaches, 
including national and subnational assessment and planning processes;  
24. Stresses the importance of enhancing the work on slow  onset events and non -
economic losses associated with c limate change impacts;  
25. Requests the Executive Committee to revise the terms of reference for and launch the 
expert groups on slow onset events and non -economic losses , taking into account the broad 
range of issues covered by the relevant strategic workstre ams, which may need to be 
addressed using a sequential approach;  
26. Also requests the Executive Committee and its thematic expert groups to develop 
technical guides within their work on their respective thematic  areas, avoiding duplication of 
work across work streams, which include  sections on the following : 
(a) Risk assessments, including long -term risk assessments, of climate change 
impacts;  
(b) Approaches to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage 
associated with the risk assessments referred to in parag raph 26(a) above;  
(c) Resources available for supporting such approaches;  
(d) Monitoring systems for assessing the effectiveness of these approaches;  
27. Invites relevant organizations and other stakeholders to collaborate with the Executive 
Committee, including through strategic partnerships, in developing and disseminating 
products that support national focal points, loss and damage contact points and other relev ant 
entities in raising awareness of averting , minimizing and addressing loss and damage 
associated with climate change impacts;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/6/Add.1  
 7 28. Encourages the Executive Committee, Parties, relevant constituted bodies and 
organizations under and outside the Convention and  the Paris Agreement and other relevant 
stakeholders to facilitate or enhance research on, and share good practices  for, averting, 
minimizing and addressing loss and damage, including long -term risk assessment and risk 
communication;  
29. Requests the Executive  Committee, in collaboration with relevant organizations, to 
foster public education and awareness -raising efforts at the regional, national and local level, 
including efforts with a capacity -building component;  
30. Recognizes the importance of scaling up the mobilization of resources to support 
efforts to avert, minimize and address loss and damage associated  with the adverse effects of 
climate change;  
31. Also recognizes the urgency of enhancing the mobilization of action and support, 
including finance, technolog y and capacity -building, for developing countries that are 
particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change for averting, minimizing and 
addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change;  
32. Urges  the scaling -up of action and support, as appropriate, including finance, 
technology and capacity -building, for developing countries that are particularly vulnerable 
to the adverse effects of climate change for averting, minimizing and addressing loss and 
damage associate d with the adverse effects of climate change;  
33. Also urges private and non -governmental organizations, funds and other stakeholders 
to scale up action and support, as appropriate, including finance, technology and capacity -
building, for developing countries that are particularly  vulnerable to the adverse effects of 
climate change for averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the 
adverse effects of climate change;   
34. Acknowledges the wide variety of sources, public and private, bilateral and 
multilateral, including alternative sources of finance, relevant to supporting approaches to 
avert, minimize and address loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate 
change;  
35. Urges the broad range of bodies, organizations and funds under and outside the 
Convention and the Paris Agreement to scale up support, including finance, technology and 
capacity -building, for developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adv erse 
effects of climate change for averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated 
with the adverse effects of climate change;  
36. Invites Parties to make use of available support relevant for averting, minimizing and 
addressing impacts related to extreme weather events, slow onset events, non -economic 
losses and human mobility and for comprehensive risk management from a wide variety of 
sources, public and private, domestic bilateral and multilateral, under and outside the 
Convention and the Par is Agreement, including through the operating entities of the Financial 
Mechanism, as appropriate, to the extent consistent with their mandates;  
37. Requests  the Executive Committee to further engage and strengthen its dialogue with 
the Standing Committee on F inance by providing input in line with decision 2/CP.19, 
paragraph 5(c)(ii), to the Standing Committee on Finance when, in accordance with its 
mandate, it provides information, recommendations and draft guidance relating to the 
operating entities of the fi nancial mechanisms under the Convention and the Paris 
Agreement, as appropriate;  
38. Takes note of decision 6/CMA.2, paragraph 8, whereby the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement invited the Board of the Green 
Climate Fund to continue providing financial resources for activities relevant to averting, 
minimizing and addressing loss and damage in developing country Parties, to the extent 
consistent with the existing investment, results framework and funding window s and 
structures of the Green Climate Fund, and to facilitate efficient access in this regard, and in FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/6/Add.1  
8  this context to take into account the strategic workstreams of the five -year rolling workplan 
of the Executive Committee;6 
39. Requests  the Executive Committe e, in collaboration with the Green Climate Fund, as 
an operating entity of the Financial Mechanism, to clarify how developing country Parties 
may access funding from the Green Climate Fund for the development of funding proposals 
related to the strategic w orkstreams of the five -year rolling workplan of the Executive 
Committee, consistently with paragraph 38 above, and to include information thereon in its 
annual reports;  
40. Also requests the Executive Committee to establish, by the end of 2020, in accordance 
with its procedures and mandate, an expert group pursuant to decision 2/CP.19, paragraph 
5(c), drawing on the work of and involving, as appropriate , existing bodies, organizations, 
networks and experts under and outside the Convention and the Paris Agreeme nt, ensuring a 
fair, equitable and balanced representation within the group;  
41. Decides  that the expert group referred to in paragraph  40 above shall develop a 
focused plan of action, while avoiding duplication of existing efforts, at its first meeting to 
take place in 2020, on the following:  
(a) The activities referred to in paragraphs 37 and 39 above;  
(b) The collection, compilation and disse mination of information on the available 
sources of support under and outside the Convention and the Paris Agreement for activities 
relevant to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage in developing country 
Parties;  
(c) Collaboration with the themat ic expert groups of the Executive Committee to 
undertake the work referred to in paragraph 26 above;  
(d) Collaboration with relevant bodies and organizations under and outside the 
Convention and the Paris Agreement pursuant to decision 2/CP.19, paragraph 5(c)( iii); 
(e) The organization of events in conjunction with relevant meetings and 
conferences, including the NAP Expo and regional events, to share information and 
experience relating to accessing available sources of support for averting, minimizing and 
addressi ng loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change, in 
collaboration with relevant constituted bodies and organizations under and outside the 
Convention and the Paris Agreement, as appropriate;  
(f) The analysis and identification of enab ling conditions for effective 
implementation of risk transfer facilities and social protection schemes in the context of 
comprehensive risk management, as appropriate;  
42. Recognizes  the importance of building the capacity, and enhancing the facilitation, of 
the provision of technical support to developing countries for approaches to averting, 
minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate 
change;  
43. Establishes , as part of the Warsaw International Mechanism, the Santiago network for 
averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage  associated with the adverse effects of 
climate change to catalyse the technical assistance of relevant organizations, bodies, 
networks and experts for the implementation of relevant approaches  at the local, national and 
regional level in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects 
of climate change;  
44. Invites  the organizations, bodies, networks and experts referred to in paragraph 43 
above engaged in providing tec hnical assistance to developing countries to report on their 
progress to the Executive Committee;  
45. Requests  the Executive Committee to include relevant information from the 
organizations, bodies, networks and experts that have reported  on their progress, as  referred 
to in paragraph 44 above, in its annual reports;  
                                                           
 6 FCCC/SB/2017/1/Add.1 , annex.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/6/Add.1  
 9 46. Recommends that the next review of the Warsaw International  Mechanism be held in 
2024 and every five years thereafter as follows:  
(a) The subsidiary bodies will develop terms of reference for each revi ew at their 
sessions immediately before the sessions at which they will undertake a review;  
(b) The subsidiary bodies will undertake future reviews of the Warsaw 
International Mechanism and forward the outputs of the reviews to the governing body or 
bodies;7 
47. Notes that considerations related to the governance of the Warsaw International 
Mechanism will continue at its third session ( November  2020);8 
48. Encourages  Parties to make available sufficient resources for the successful and 
timely implementation of the five -year rolling  workplan of the Executive Committee;  
49. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in this decision ;  
50. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat  called for in this deci sion be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
8th plenary meeting  
15 December 2019  
                                                           
 7 Pending the outcome of future discussions on this matter as per para. 47 as well as decision 2/CP.25, 
para.  2. No thing in th is decision prejudices Parties’ views or prejudges outcomes on matters related to 
the governance of the Warsaw International Mechanism . 
 8 It is noted that discussions related to the governance of the Warsaw International Mechanism did not 
produce an outcome; this is without prejudice to further consideration of this matter . FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/6/Add.1  
10    Decision 3/CMA.2  
Initial institutional arrangements for capacity -building under 
the Paris Agreement  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
Recalling Article s 11 and 19 of the Paris Agreement , 
Also recall ing decision 3/CMA.1, paragraphs 11–13, 
Further r ecalling  decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 81,  
1. Recognizes the importance of capacity -building under the Paris Agreement for 
enhancing the capacity and ability of developing country Parties, in particular those wit h the 
least capacity and those that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate 
change, to take effective climate action;  
2. Also recognizes that capacity -building efforts and activities take place under a range 
of constituted bodies under the Convention and the Paris Agreement, in line with their 
respective mandates , as well as by various bodies and actors outside the Convention and the 
Paris Agreement;  
3. Decides that the Paris Committee on Capacity -building shall serve the Paris 
Agreem ent in accordance with its mandate1 and terms of reference ;2 
4. Also d ecides that the priority areas and activities of the Paris Committee on Capacity -
building  are those contained in decision 9/CP.25;  
5. Invites the Paris Committee on Capacity -building to work c losely with other 
constituted bodies under the Convention and the Paris Agreement to address gaps and needs, 
both current and emerging, in implementing capacity -building in developing countries and 
to enhance the coherence and coordination of capacity -building in accordance with the 
relevant mandates and activities of those bodies;  
6. Requests  the secretariat  to include,  in its annual compilation and synthesis report on 
the capacity -building work of bodies established under the Convention and its Kyoto 
Protocol, information on work on issues pertaining to capacity -building under the Paris 
Agreement undertaken by bodies se rving the Paris Agreement;  
7. Decides that inputs to the work of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building  on issues 
pertaining to capacity -building under the Paris Agreement may include , inter alia, 
submissions, information reported through the enhanced trans parency framework, and, as 
appropriate, the compilation and synthesis report referred to in paragraph 6 above, reports on 
the Durban Forum and the capacity -building portal ; 
8. Confirms that the Paris Committee on Capacity -building  shall report to both the 
Conference of the Parties and the C onference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Paris Agreement  through its annual technical progress report . 
7th plenary  meeting  
12 December 2019  
                                                           
 1 Decision 1/CP.21, para . 71. 
 2 Decision 2/CP.22, annex . FCCC/P A/CMA/2019/6/Add.1  
 11   Decision 4/C MA.2 
  Workplan of the forum on the impact of the implementation 
of response measures and its Katowice Committee of Experts 
on the Impacts of the Implementation of Response Measures  
 The Conference of the Parties , the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol , and  the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement ,  
 Recalling  decisions 7/ CP.24 , 3/CMP.14 and 7/CMA.1,  
1. Welcome  the annual report of the Katowice Committee of Experts on the Impacts of 
the Implementation of Respon se Measures1 and its progress in supporting the work of the 
forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures;  
2. Adopt  the rules of procedure of the Katowice Committee on Impacts  as contained in 
annex I;  
3. Adopt the workplan of the forum on the im pact of the implementation of response 
measures and its Katowice Committee on Impacts  as contained in annex II;  
4. Decide that the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures, in 
the context of the implementation of the workplan, may consider, as needed, additional 
modalities for the workplan activities, consistent with the modalities identified in decision  
7/CMA.1, and recommend such additional modalities for the workplan for consideration and 
adoption by the subsidiary bodies ; 
5. Recall  paragraph 12 of decision 7/CMA.1, which provides that the forum on the 
impact of the implementation of response measures sha ll provide recommendations for 
consideration by the subsidiary bodies with a view to the subsidiary bodies recommending 
actions to the Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  for consideration and adoption;  
6. Request the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures to 
continue considering the first annual report  of the Kat owice Committee on Impacts,  including 
the recommendations and considerations contained therein , at the fifty -sixth session s of the 
subsidiary bodies (June 202 2) with a view to providing recommendations for consideration 
and adoption by the C onference of th e Parties , the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the  Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  at their next session s;  
7. Also r equest  the secretariat to support the implementation of the workplan of the 
forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures and its Katowice 
Committee on Impacts  referred to in paragraph 3 above;  
8. Take  note of the estimated budgetary implications o f the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraph 3 above;  
9. Request  that the actions of the secretariat called for in th is decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
                                                           
 1 Available at https://unfccc.int/documents/202723 . FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/6/Add.1  
12  Annex  I 
  Rules of procedure of the Katowice Committee of Experts on 
the Impacts of the Implementation of Response Measures  
I. Scope  
1. These rules of procedure shall apply to the Katowice Committee of Experts on the 
Impacts of the Implementation of Response Measures (K CI) in accordance with decision 
7/CMA.1  and its annex.  
II. Mandate  
2. The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the  Parties to the Paris 
Agreement  (CMA ), by decision 7/CMA.1 , decided to establish the KCI to support the work 
of the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures in implementing its 
work programme and operating in accordance with the terms  of reference  contained in the 
annex to that decision.   
3. The forum and the KCI may use the following modalities, as appropriate and as 
decided on a case -by-case basis,  to carry out the work programme of the forum:  
(a) Building awareness and enhancing information -sharing through the exchange 
and sharing of experience and best practices;  
(b) Preparing technical papers, case studies, specific examples and guidelines;  
(c) Receiving inputs from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations;  
(d) Organizing workshops . 
III. Members  
4. The CMA, by decision 7/CMA.1, decided that the KCI shall be composed of 14 
members, of which:  
(a) Two members from each of the five United Nations regional groups;  
(b) One member from the least developed countries;  
(c) One member from the small island develo ping States;  
(d) Two members from relevant intergovernmental organizations.1  
5. By the same decision, the CMA also decided that members shall be nominated by 
their respective groups.  Groups are encouraged to nominate members taking into account the 
goal of achie ving gender balance. The Chairs of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and 
Technological Advice (SBSTA) and the Subsidiary Body for Implementation  (SBI) shall be 
notified of these appointments.2  
6. The CMA also decided that members shall serve in their expert  capacity and should 
have relevant qualifications and expertise in the technical and socioeconomic fields related 
to the areas of the work programme of the forum.3 
7. Further, the CMA decided that members shall serve a term of two years and be eligible 
to ser ve a maximum of two consecutive terms in office.4 
                                                           
 1 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(b).  
 2 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4( d).  
 3 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(c).  
 4 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(e).  FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/6/Add.1  
 13 8. The term of office of a member shall commence  at the first meeting of the KCI in the 
calendar year  of their appointment and end immediately before the first meeting of the KCI 
in the calendar year after their second calendar year  in office.  
9. If a member of the KCI resigns or is otherwise unable to complete the assigned term 
of office or to perform the functions of that office, the KCI shall request the group that 
nominated the member to nominate another member for the remainder of the unexpired term, 
in which case the appointment shall count as one term. In such a case, the KCI shall notify 
the Chairs of the SBST A and the SBI.  
10. If a member is unable to participate in two consecutive meetings of the KCI or unable 
to perform the functions and tasks set by the KCI, the Co-Chairs of the KCI will bring this 
matter to the attention of the KCI and seek clarification from the group that nominated that 
member on the status of their membership.  
IV. Co-Chairs  
11. The CMA decided that t he KCI shall elect, on a consensus basis, two members from 
amon g its members to serve as Co -Chairs for a term of two years each,  taking into account 
the need to ensure equitable geographical representation.5 
12. The CMA also decided that if one of the Co -Chairs is temporarily unable to fulfil the 
obligations of the office, another member designated by the KCI shall serve as Co -Chair.6 
13. If one of the Co -Chairs  is unable to complete the term of office, the KCI shall elect a 
replacement from among its members of the relevant group of the incumbent Co -Chair, if 
available, to complete that term of office.  
14. The Co-Chairs shall collaborate in chairing meetings of the KCI and in  facilitating the 
work of the KCI throughout the year , in accordance with the workplan of the forum and its 
KCI, to ensure coherence between meetings.  
15. Following the completion of the Co -Chairs’ two -year term of office, the KCI shall 
nominate two  members as Co-Chairs to serve the next two -year term of office.  
16. The C o-Chairs shall  declare the opening and closing of meeting s of the KCI , ensure 
the observance of these rules of procedure and rule on points of order . 
17. The Co-Chairs shall call upon speaker s at meetings of the KCI in the order in which 
they signify their desire to speak. The secretariat shall maintain a list of speakers. The Co-
Chairs may call a speaker to order if their remarks are not relevant to the subject under 
discussion.  
18. The KCI may further define additional roles and responsibilities for the Co-Chairs.  
19. In exercising their functions, t he Co-Chairs  shall remain under the authority of the 
KCI.  
V. Secretariat  
20. The secretariat shall support and facilitate the work of the KCI , by:  
(a) Making the necessary arrangements for the meetings of the KCI, including 
announcing meetings, issuing invitations, making the necessary travel arrangements for 
members eligible for funding for their participation in meetings and making available 
relevant d ocuments for meetings;  
(b) Maintain ing meeting records and arrang ing for the storage and preservation of 
documents of meetings  of the KCI ; 
                                                           
 5 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(f).  
 6 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para . 4(g).  FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/6/Add.1  
14  (c) Making documents of meetings of the KCI available to the public, unless 
otherwise decided by the KCI.  
21. The secretariat sha ll assist the KCI in tracking its actions, in accordance with the 
workplan of the forum and its KCI, in its annual report . 
22. In addition, the secretariat shall perform any other functions assigned  by the KCI, in 
accordance with the workplan of the forum and its KCI.   
VI. Meetings  
23. The KCI shall meet twice per year, for two days per meeting, in conjunction with the 
sessions of the subsidiary bod ies. 
24. At least nine members of the KCI must be present to constitute a quorum.  
25. Members are requested to confirm their atten dance at meetings of the KCI as early  as 
possible , and at least four weeks prior to a meeting for members eligible for funding for  their 
participation , to enable sufficient time for the secretariat to make the necessary travel  
arrangements.  
26. Should technica l and financial resources permit, open meetings of the KCI shall be 
webcast through the UNFCCC website.  
27. At each of its meetings, the KCI shall propose the dates of its next meeting. The Co -
Chairs will agree the dates of the next meeting in consultation wit h the secretariat.  
VII. Agenda and documentation for meetings  
28. The Co-Chairs, assisted by the secretariat, shall prepare the provisional  agenda and 
provisional annotated  agenda for each meeting  of the KCI in accordance with the workplan 
of the forum and its KCI . The Co -Chairs will prepare a report on the meeting, to be agreed 
by members, and this will be made available on the UNFCCC website. The Co -Chairs will 
report back to the forum on the meeting of the KCI.  
29. The provisional agenda and provisional annotated ag enda for each meeting shall be 
transmitted to the members of the KCI at least four weeks in advance of the meeting.  
30. Members may propose additions or changes to the provisional agenda and provisional 
annotated agenda, in writing, to the secretariat within one week of receiving the documents, 
and these additions or changes shall be considered for a revised provisional agenda and 
provisional annotated agenda by the secretariat in agreement with the Co -Chairs.  
31. The secretariat shall transmit the provisional agenda and provisional annotated agenda 
and any supporting documentation to the members at least two weeks prior to  a meeting. 
Documents may be transmitted after that date with the approval of the Co-Chairs.  
32. Documents for a meeting shall be published on the  UNFCCC website at least two  
weeks prior to that meeting , to the extent possible.   
33. The KCI shall, at the beginning of each meeting, adopt the agenda  for that meeting.  
34. The CMA decided that members of the KCI shall prepare an annual report for 
consideration by the forum with a view to making recommendations for consideration by the 
SBSTA and the SBI, which, in turn, are to recommend actions to the Conference of the 
Parties (COP), the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Partie s to the Kyoto 
Protocol (CMP)  and the CMA  for their consideration and adoption.7  
35. This annual report shall be made available on the UNFCCC website  before  the 
relevant sessions  of the  COP, the CMP  and the CMA . 
                                                           
 7 Decision 7/CMA.1, para. 12, and annex, para. 4(j).  FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/6/Add.1  
 15 VIII.  Decision -making  
36. The CMA decided  that the KCI sh all operate on the basis of consensus of its 
members.8 
37. The KCI may use electronic means to facilitate its work, as appropriate and in 
accordance with the workplan of the forum and its KCI.  
IX. Working language  
38. The working language of the KCI shall be English.  
X. Participation of expert advisers in meetings  
39. The KCI, i n performing its mandate, should draw upon outside expertise at its 
meetings.  
40. The Co-Chairs may, in consultation with the KCI, invite representatives of 
international organizations , the private sector , academia  and/or civil society to participate in 
a meet ing of the KCI as expert advisers on specific issues under consideration at the meeting.  
XI. Participation of observers  
41. The CMA decided  that meetings of the KCI shall be open to attendance as observers 
by all Parties and accredited observer organizations, unless otherwise decided by the KCI.9  
42. The KCI may decide to close  a meeting or part thereof to observers  at any time . 
43. The secretariat shall make the dates and venues of the meetings available  to the public 
to enable participation by observers.  
44. Observers  may, with the agreement of the KCI, be invited to address the KCI on 
matters under consideration by the KCI. The Co-Chairs shall notify  the KCI one week in 
advance of the meeting of any proposed interventions by observers.  
45. The KCI may request intervention s from observers throughout the meeting, as 
appropriate.  
XII. Use of electronic means of communication  
46. The KCI shall  use electronic means of  communication to facilitate intersessional 
work , as appropriate and in accordance with the workplan of the forum and its KCI . The 
secretariat shall ensure that a secure and dedicated web interface is e stablished and 
maintained to facilitate the work of th e KCI.  
XIII.  Working groups  
47. The KCI may establish working groups among its members to support the forum in 
performing its functions. The working groups may receive inputs from experts, practitioners 
and relevant organizations in accordance with the workplan of the forum and its KCI and  in 
line with paragraphs 39 –40 above.  
                                                           
 8 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(i).  
 9 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(h).   FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/6/Add.1  
16  XIV. Workplan  
48. The KCI will support the work of the forum in line with the workplan of the forum 
and its KCI.  
XV. Amendments to the rules of procedure  
49. The KCI may recommend amendments to these rules of procedure for consideration 
by the forum and approval by the subsidiary bodies.  
50. Proposals and amendments to proposals for the rules of procedure may be introduced 
and submitted to the secretariat in writing by  KCI members; such proposals and amendments 
shall be circulated for consideration by all members of the KCI.  
51. No proposal for the rules of procedure shall be discussed or put forward for a decision 
at any meeting unless copies have been circulated to the KCI members no later than  two 
weeks before  the m eeting.  
XVI. Overriding authority  of the Convention, the Kyoto Protocol 
and the Paris Agreement  
52. In the event of a conflict between any provision of these rules and any provis ion of 
the Convention, the Kyoto Protocol  or the Paris Agreement, the provision of the Convention, 
the Kyoto Protocol or the Paris Agreement shall take precedence.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/6/Add.1  
 17 Annex II 
  Workplan of the forum on the impact of the implementation 
of response measures and its Katowice Committee of Experts 
on the Impacts of the Implementation of Response Measures1 
The Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meet ing of 
the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of 
the Parties to the Paris Agreement recall : 
(a) Decision 7/CMA.1, paragraph 12, in which  it was decided that the forum on 
the impact of the implementation of re sponse measures shall provide recommendations for 
consideration by the subsidiary bodies with a view to the subsidiary bodies recommending 
actions to the Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement for consideration and adoption ; 
(b) Decision 7/CMA.1 , annex , paragraph  4(j), in which  it was  decided that the 
members of the Katowice Committee of Experts on the Impacts of the Implementation of 
Response Measures ( KCI) shall prepare an annual report for consideration by the forum with 
a view to making recommendations to the Conference of the Part ies, the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement ; 
(c) Decision 7/CMA.1 , annex , paragraph  5, in which it was decided tha t the forum 
and its KCI may use the following modalities, as appropriate and as decided on a case -by-
case basis, in order to carry out the work programme of the forum:  
(i) Building awareness and enhancing information -sharing through the exchange 
and sharing of  experience and best practices;  
(ii) Preparing technical papers, case studies, concrete examples and guidelines;  
(iii) Receiving input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations;  
(iv) Organizing workshops ; 
(d) Decision 7/CMA.1 , paragraph  10, in which the subsidiar y bodies were  
requested to conduct a midterm review of the work plan of the forum ; 
(e) Decision 7/CMA.1, paragraph 9, in which  it was decided that the forum shall 
develop and recommend a six -year workplan in line with the forum’s functions, work 
programme and modalities taking into account relevant policy issues of concern to Parties.   
 
                                                           
 1 See the table below .   
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/6/Add.1  
18  
 
Workplan of the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures and its Katowice Committee of Experts on the Impacts of the Implementation 
of Response Measures  (for the fifty -second to sixty -third sessions of the subsidiary bodies)  
Activity 
number  a Activity  Estimated timeline  for 
implementation  Responsible 
actor  Modalities/ outputs  
a Provide capacity -building to the C hairs and members of 
UNFCCC constituted bodies and technical teams of the 
secretariat on how to integrate gender considerations 
into their respective areas of work and on meeting the 
goal of gender balance  (decision 3/CP.23)  SB 52  (June 2020)  KCI Workshop  
b Consideration of the KCI annual report by the forum on 
the impact of the implementation of response measures  
(decision 7/CMA.1 , annex, para. 4(j) ) SB 53  (November 2020) , 
SB 55 (November 2021) , 
SB 57 (November 2022) , 
SB 59 (November 2023) , 
SB 61 (November 2024) 
and SB 63 (2025)  KCI Prepar e annual report  
Forum  Consider annual report  
c Midterm review of th is workplan , starting from SB 56  
(June 2022) ( decision 7/CMA.1, para . 10) SB 56  Forum  Conclusions/draft decisions  
d Prepare information for the technical assessment 
component of the global stocktake related to the impacts 
of the implementation of response measures ( decision 
19/CMA.1, paras . 8 and 24)  SB 56 and SB 57 Forum  Forward an outcome document for consideration in the 
technical assessment of the global stocktake  
e Review of the functions, work programme and 
modalities of the forum at SB  59 (decision 7/CMA.1, 
para. 6) SB 58 (June 2023) and 
SB 59 Forum  Prepare g uiding questions for the review  
Receive and consider the review  
1 Explore approaches to informing the development and 
implementation of climate change mitigation strategies, 
plans, policies and programmes, including nationally 
determined contributions and /or long-term low 
greenhouse gas emission development strategies, that 
maximize the positive and minimize the negative 
impactsb of response measures  SB 52  KCI Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Forum  Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Awareness -building  and enhanc ing information -sharing 
through the exchange and sharing of experience and best 
practices  
2 Identify country -driven strategies and best practices on 
just transition of the work force  and creation of decent 
work and quality jobs and on economic diversification SB 54 (May–June 2021) 
and SB 58 KCI Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Concrete examples   
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/6/Add.1  
 19 
 
Activity 
number  a Activity  Estimated timeline  for 
implementation  Responsible 
actor  Modalities/ outputs  
and transformation focusing on challenges and 
opportunities from the implementation of low 
greenhouse gas emission policies and strategies towards 
the achievement of sus tainable development  SB 58  Forum  Awareness -building  and enhancing information -sharing 
through the exchange and sharing of experience and best 
practices  
In-session workshop  
3 Facilitate the development, enhancement, customization 
and use of tools and methodologies for modelling and 
assessing the impacts of the implementation of response 
measures , including identifying and reviewing existing 
tools and approaches in data -poor environments, in 
consultation with technical experts, practitioners and 
other relevant stakeholders  SB 53 and onward, as 
decided by the forum/KCI  KCI Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Technical paper  
Forum  Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Awareness -building  and enhancing information -sharing 
through the exchange and sharing of experience and best 
practices  
Organizing a regional workshop  
4 Enhance the capacity and understanding of Parties, 
through collaboration and input from stakeholders, on 
the assessment and analysis of the impacts of the 
implementation of response measures to facilitate the 
undertaking of economic diversification and 
transformation and just transition  SB 52 and SB 63 KCI Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Technical paper  
Forum  Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Awareness -building  and enhancing information -sharing 
through the exchange and sharing of experience and best 
practices  
5 Build awareness and understanding of Parties and other 
stakeholders to assess the economic impacts of potential 
new industries and businesses resulting from the 
implementation of response measures with a view to 
maximizing the positive and minimizing the negative 
impacts of the implementation of response measures  SB 57  KCI Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Technical paper  
Forum  Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Awareness -building  and enhancing information -sharing 
through the exchange and sharing of experience and best 
practices  
6 Promote the availability and use of guidelines and 
policy frameworks to assist Parties in promoting just 
transition of the workforce and the creation of decent 
work and quality jobs within and across sectors, 
including trai ning, retooling, retraining and reskilling 
systems and stakeholder engagement strategies  SB 60  (June 2024)  KCI Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Forum  Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Exchange and sharing of experience and best practices   
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/6/Add.1  
20  
 
Activity 
number  a Activity  Estimated timeline  for 
implementation  Responsible 
actor  Modalities/ outputs  
7 Facilitate the development and exchange of regional, 
country - and/or sector -specific case studies and 
approaches on ( 1) economic diversification and 
transformation and just transition of the workforce and 
creation of decent work and quality jobs, and ( 2) 
assessment and analysis of the impacts of the 
implementation of response measures with a view to 
understanding the positive and negative impacts  SB 59 and onward, as 
decided by the forum/KCI  KCI Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
KCI to examine existing case studies and identify an area 
where it may develop a case study, as appropriate  
Forum  Exchange and sharing of experience and best practices  
8 Identify and exchange experiences and best practices in 
engaging the private sector, including small and 
medium -sized enterprises and public –private 
partnerships , to facilitate the creation of decent work 
and quality jobs in low greenhouse gas emission sec tors SB 59  KCI Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Technical paper  
Forum  Exchange and sharing of experience and best practices  
Concrete examples  
9 Identify and assess the impacts of the implementation of 
response measures taking into account intergenerational 
equity, gender considerations and the needs of local 
communities, indigenous peoples, youth and other 
people in vulnerable situations  SB 56 and  SB 62 (2025)  KCI Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Technical paper  
Forum  Exchange and sharing of experience and best practices  
Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
In-session workshop  
10 Share experience and best practices in reporting  and 
informing on efforts to assess and analy se the impacts 
of the implementation of response measures  SB 61  KCI Exchange and sharing of experience and best practices  
Forum  Exchange and sharing of experience and best practices  
Concrete examples  
11 Facilitate, exchange and share experiences and best 
practices in the assessment of the environmental, social 
and economic co -benefits of climate change policies 
and actions informed by the best available science, 
including the use of existing tools and methodologies  SB 55 and SB 57  KCI Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Forum  Exchange and sharing of experience and best practices  
a   Letters represent activities from previous decisions while numbers are new activities from this decision.  
b   “Impacts ” in this document refers to social, economic and environmental impacts.  
Abbreviations : KCI = Katowice Committee of Experts on the Impacts of the Implementation of Response Mea sures, SB = sessions of the subsidiary bodies.  
8th plenary meeting  
15 December 2019  FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/6/Add.1  
 21   Decision 5/CMA.2  
  Matters relating to the Standing Committee on Finance  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement ,  
Recalling Article 9 of the Paris Agreement,  
 Also recalling decisions 1/CP.21, paragraphs 53 and 63, 14/CMA.1 and 11/CP.25,  
1. Takes note  of the report of the Standing Committee on Finance to the  Conference of 
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its second session 
and the recomm endations contained therein;1  
2. Endorses  the workplan2 of the Standing Committee on Finance for 2020 and 
underlines  the importance of the Standing Committee on Finance focusing its work in 2020 
in accordance with its current mandates;  
3. Notes  the outcomes of the discussions of the Standing Committee on Finance on the 
2020 Biennial Assessment and Overview of Climate Finance Flows and the report on the 
determination of the needs of developing country Parties related to implementing the 
Convention and the Paris A greement as well as the respective workplans, outreach activities 
and indicative timelines for preparation;3  
4. Expresses  its appreciation  to the Governments of Australia, Belgium, Germany, 
Norway, the Philippines and Switzerland for their financial contribu tions to support the work 
of the Standing Committee on Finance;  
5. Welcomes the 2019 Forum of the Standing Committee on Finance, on the topic of 
climate finance and sustainable cities, with a focus on enhancing understanding of how to 
accelerate the mobiliza tion and delivery of climate finance for the development of sustainable 
cities, and takes note  of the summary report4 on the Forum;  
6. Expresses its gratitude  to the Governments of Australia, Lebanon and Norway, as 
well as to the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia, the Union 
for the Mediterranean, and the Islamic Development Bank, for their financial, administrative 
and substantive support, which contributed to the success of the 2019 Forum of the Standing 
Committee on Finance ;  
7. Welcomes  the decision of the Standing Committee on Finance on the topic of its 2020 
Forum, which will be financing nature -based solutions ;  
8. Notes  the inputs of the Standing Committee on Finance to the technical paper on the 
elaboration of the sources of an d modalities for accessing financial support for addressing 
loss and damage;5 
9. Encourages  the Standing Committee on Finance to present, to the extent possible, 
disaggregated information in relation to, inter alia, mapping data availability and gaps by 
secto r, assessing climate finance flows and presenting information on the determination of 
the needs  of developing country Parties related to implementing the Convention and the Paris 
Agreement ;  
10. Underscores the important contribution of the Standing Committee on Finance in 
relation to the operational definitions of climate finance , and invites  Parties to submit via the 
submission portal,6 by 30 April 2020, their views on the operational definitions of climate 
                                                           
 1 FCCC/CP/2019/10−FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/3.  
 2 FCCC/CP/2019/10−FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/3, annex V.  
 3  FCCC/CP/2019/10−FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/3, annexes II and III, respectively.  
 4 FCCC/CP/2019/10/Add.1−FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/3/Add.1 . 
 5 FCCC/TP/2019/1 .  
 6 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx .  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/6/Add.1  
22  finance for consideration by the Standing Committee on Finance in order to enhance its 
technical work on this matter in the context of preparing its 2020 Biennial Assessment and 
Overview of Climate Finance Flows;  
11. Takes note  of the strategic  outreach plan7 of the Standing Committee on Finance on 
enhancing st akeholder engagement;  
12. Encourages  the Standing Committee on Finance, in implementing its strategic 
outreach plan, to build on existing efforts to reach out to developing country Parties and 
relevant developing country stakeholders when generating data and information for the 
determination of the needs of developing country Parties related to implementing the 
Convention and the Paris Agreement;  
13. Looks forward  to the inputs that may be provided by the Executive Committee of the 
Warsaw International Mechanism f or Loss and Damage associated with Climate Change 
Impacts to the work of the Standing Committee on Finance for its consideration in preparing 
elements of draft guidance for the operating entities;  
14. Encourages the Standing Committee  on Finance to continue to  enhance its efforts 
towards ensuring gender -responsiveness in implementing its workplan;  
15. Emphasizes the importance of the transparency  of the proceedings and decision -
making processes of the Standing Committee on Finance;  
16. Takes note of the appointment of  Standing  Committee on Finance focal points to liaise 
with the other constituted bodies under the Convention and the Paris Agreement;  
17. Decides  to initiate the review of the functions8 of the Standing Committee on Finance 
relating to the Paris Agreement, as part of the review referred to in decision 11/CP.25  with a 
view to concluding it at its fifth session (November 2022);  
18. Requests the Standing Committee  on Finance to report to the Con ference of the Parties 
serving as  the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its third session (November 
2020) on progress in implementing its workplan;  
19. Also requests  that the actions of the Standing Committee on Finance called for in this 
decisi on be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources.  
8th plenary meeting  
15 December 2019  
                                                           
 7 FCCC/CP/2019/10−FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/3, annex IV.   
 8 Pursuant to decision 2/CP.17, annex VI, para. 10.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/6/Add.1  
 23   Decision 6/CMA.2  
  Guidance to the Green Climate Fund  
 The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
1. Recommends  that the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -fifth session transmit  to 
the Green Climate Fund  the guidance contained in paragraphs 2–8 below , in accordance with 
decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 61 ; 
2. Welcomes  the report of the Green Climate Fund to the Conference of the Parties at its 
twenty -fifth session  and its addendum,1 including the list of actions t aken by the Board of the 
Green Climate Fund (hereinafter referred to as the Board) in response to guidance received 
from the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties  to the Paris 
Agreement ; 
3. Also welcomes  the Board’s decision2 confirm ing that the current G reen Climate Fund 
modalities enable support for the preparation and implementation of nationally determined 
contributions and adaptation -related elements of the Paris Agreement;  
4. Recalls  Article 7, paragra ph 1, of the  Paris Agreement , in which Parties established a 
global goal on adaptation for  enhancing adaptive capacity, strengthening resilience and 
reducing vulnerability to  climate change;  
5. Takes note  of the encouragement of the Conference of the Parties serving as the  
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement3 for the Green Climate Fund , among others, to 
continue channelling support to developing country Parties for the  implementation of their 
adaptation plans and actions in accordance with the priori ties and needs outlined in their 
adaptation communication and/or nationally determined contributions ; 
6. Encourages  the Green Climate Fund to continue to enhance its support for adaptation 
and requests  the Green Climate Fund to: 
(a) Swiftly conclude its work on guidance on the approach and scope for providing 
support to adaptation activities;4 
(b) Continue to enhance its support for the implementation of national adaptation 
plans , in line with Board decisions on enhancing readiness programming;5 
7. Also e ncourages  the Green Climate Fund  to continue to collaborate with the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network and the Technology Executive Committee  with a view to 
both strengthening cooperative action on technology development and transfer at different 
stages of the techn ology cycle  and achieving a balance between support for mitigation and 
support for adaptation ; 
8. Invites  the Board of the Green Climate Fund to continue providing financial resources 
for activities relevant to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage in developing 
country Parties, to the extent consistent with the existing investment , results framework and 
funding windows and structures  of the Green Climate Fund , and to facilitate efficient access 
in this regard, and in this context to take into  account the strategic workstreams of the five -
year rolling workplan of the Executive Committee  of the Warsaw International Mechanism 
for Loss and Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts.6 
8th plenary meeting  
15 December 2019
                                                           
 1  FCCC/CP/2019/3 and Add.1.  
 2 Green Climate Fund Board decision GCF/B.13/10.  
 3  Decision 9/CMA.1, para . 21. 
 4  Pursuant to Green Climate Fund Board document GCF/B.1 7/10. 
 5  Green Climate Fund  Board decisions GCF/ B.22/10 and GCF/ B.22/11.  
 6  See document FCCC/SB/2017/1/Add.1, annex . FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/6/Add.1  
24    Decision 7/CMA.2 
  Guidance to the Global Environment Facility  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
1. Recommends  that the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -fifth session transmit to 
the Global Environment Facility the guidance contained in paragraphs 2 –3 below, in 
accordance with decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 61 ; 
2. Welcomes  the report of the Global Environment Facility to the Conference of the 
Parties at its twenty -fifth session,1 including the list of actions taken by the Global 
Environment Facility in response to the guidance received from the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris  Agreement;  
3. Requests  the Global Environment  Facility, as an operating entity of the Financial 
Mechanism,  to adequately support developing country Parties in preparing their first and 
subsequent biennial transparency reports  under its seventh replenishment and throughout its 
replenishment cycles in accordance with Article 13, paragraph s 14–15, of the Paris 
Agreement  and decision 18/CMA.1 . 
8th plenary meeting  
15 December 2019
                                                           
 1  FCCC/CP/2019/5 and Add.1.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/6/Add.1  
 25   Decision 8/CMA.2  
  Enhancing climate technology development and transfer to 
support implementation of the Paris Agreement  
 The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
 Recalling  Article 10 of the Paris Agreement,  
 Also recalling  decision 1/CP.21, paragraphs 66 and 68, and decision 15/CMA.1,  
1. Welcomes the joint annual report of the Technology Exe cutive Committee and the 
Climate Technology Centre and Network for  20191 and the efforts of the bodies in 
incorporating the guidance contained in the technology framework into their respective 
workplan and programme of work;2 
2. Notes , recalling  decision 15/CMA.1, paragraph 3, that the information on how the 
Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Centre and Network have 
incorporated the guidance contained in the technology framework into their respective 
workplan and programme o f work was not included in a comprehensive manner in the joint 
annual report referred to in paragraph 1 above, and requests  the Technology Executive 
Committee and the Climate Technology Centre and Network to include this information in 
their joint annual r eport for 2020;  
3. Also notes the areas identified by the Technology Executive Committee and the 
Climate Technology Centre and Network for collaboration in 2019 –20223,4 in supporting 
implementation of the Paris Agreement, and requests them to finalize in 2020  the 
development of activities to be undertaken jointly in those areas with a view to incorporating 
the guidance contained in the technology framework into these activities ; 
4. Encourages  the Technology  Executive Committee and the Climate Technology 
Centre an d Network to continue to report on the progress of their work as well as on 
challenges and lessons learned in implementing the technology framework;  
5. Requests  the T echnology Executive Committee  and the Climate Technology Centre 
and Network  to continue to im plement their respective  mandates with strengthened efforts 
on all key themes of the technology framework when serving the Paris Agreement.  
7th plenary meeting  
12 December 2019  
                                                           
 1 FCCC/SB/2019/4.  
 2 Pursuant to decision 15/CMA.1, para . 3. 
 3 See the r olling workplan of the Technology Executive Committee for 2019 –2022 , available at 
https://bit.ly/36ESdPG . 
 4 See the p rogramme of work of the Climate Technology Centre and Network for 2 019–2022 , available 
at https://www.ctc -n.org/sites/www.ctc -n.org/files/ctcn_programme_of_work_2019 -2022.pdf .  FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/6/Add.1  
26     Decision 9/CMA.2  
  Matters relating to Article 6 of the Paris Agreement  
  The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement ,  
  Recalling Article 6, paragraphs 2, 4 and 8, of the Par is Agreement,  
  Also recalling decision 1/CP.21, paragraphs 36 –40, and decision 8/CMA.1,  
Having considered  the outcomes of the work of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific 
and Technological Advice on matters relating to Article 6 of the Paris Agreement  in response 
to the request  of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Paris Agreement ,1 
1. Notes the draft d ecision texts on matters relating to Article 6 of the Paris Agreement  
prepared by the President of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Paris Agreement2 at its second session , while recognizing that these draft texts 
do not represent a consensus among Parties;  
2. Requests the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice to continue 
consideration of the matters referred to in paragraph 1 above at its fifty -second session (June 
2020) on the basis of the dra ft decision texts referred to in paragraph 1 above, with a view to 
recommending  draft decisions for consideration and adoption by the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  at its third session 
(November  2020 ). 
8th plenary meeting  
15 December 2019  
                                                           
 1  Decision 8/CMA.1, para.  3.  
 2 Draft decision texts on  
guidance o n cooperative approaches referred to in Article 6, paragraph  2, of the Paris Agreement, 
available at https://unfccc.int/documents/204687  (third iteration, 15 December), 
https://unfccc.int/documents/202115  (second iteration, 14 December) and 
https://unfccc.int/documents/204639  (first iteration, 13 December);  
rules, modalities and procedures for the mecha nism established by Article 6, paragraph 4, of the Paris 
Agreement, available at https://unfccc.int/documents/204686  (third iteration, 15 December), 
https://unfccc.int/documents/201918  (second iteration, 14 December) and 
https://unfccc.int/documents/204644  (first iteration, 13 December); and  
the work programme under the framework for non -market approaches referred to in Article 6, 
paragraph 8, of the Paris Agreement , available at https://unfccc.int/documents/204667  (third iteratio n, 
15 December), https://unfccc.int/documents/202118  (second iteration, 14 December) and 
https://unfccc.int/documents/204638  (first iteration, 13 December).  FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/6/Add.1  
 27   Resolution 1/CMA.2  
  Expression of gratitude to the Government of the Republic of 
Chile, the Government of the Kingdom of Spain and the 
people of the city of Madrid  
 Resolution submitted by the United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland  
 The Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties serving as the me eting 
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement , 
 Having met in Madrid from 2 to 1 5 December 2019,  
1. Express their profound gratitude to the Government of the Republic of Chile  and the 
Government of the Kingdom of Spain for having made it possible for the twenty -fifth session 
of the Conference of the Parties, the fifteenth session of the Conference of the Parties serving 
as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protoco l and the second session of the Conference 
of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement to be held in 
Madrid;  
2. Request the Government of the Kingdom of Spain and the  Government of the 
Republic of Chile  to convey to the city and people of Madrid  the gratitude of the Conference 
of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol and the Conference of the Parties serv ing as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement for the hospitality and warmth extended to the participants.  
10th plenary meeting  
15 December 2019  
      
 
GE.23 -04728(E)  
Conference of the Parties  serving as the meeting  
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
Report of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement on its fourth 
session, held in Sharm el -Sheikh  from 6 to 20 November 2022  
Addendum  
Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its fourth session  
Contents  
Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
 Decision  Page 
  1/CM A.4 Sharm el -Sheikh Implementation Plan  ................................ ................................ ............   2 
  2/CM A.4 Funding arrangements for responding to loss and damage associated with the  
    adverse effects of climate change, including a focus on addressing loss and damage  ....  13 
  3/CMA.4  Glasgow –Sharm el -Sheikh work programme on the global goal on adaptation  
    referred to in decision 7/CMA.3  ................................ ................................ ......................   18 
  4/CMA.4  Sharm el -Sheik h mitigation ambition and implementation work programme  .................   22 
  5/CMA .4 New collective quantified goal on climate finance  ................................ ..........................   25 
  
United Nations  FCCC /PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.1  
 
 
 
  
Distr.: General  
17 March  2023 
 
Original: English  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.1  
2    Decision 1/CMA.4  
   Sharm el -Sheikh Implementation Plan  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
Recalling Article 2 of the Paris Agreement,  
Also recalling decisions  3/CMA.1, 4/CMA.1 and 1/CMA.2,  
Noting decision 1/CP.27, 
Being g uided by science and principles,  
Recalling Article 2, paragraph 1, of the Paris Agreement, which provides that the 
Agreement, in enhancing the implementation of the Convention, aims to strengt hen the 
global response to the threat of climate change, in the context of sustainable development 
and efforts to eradicate poverty,  
Also recalling Article 2, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement, which provides that the 
Agreement will be implemented to re flect equity and the principle of common but 
differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities, in the light of different national 
circumstances,  
Reaffirming the outcomes of all previous sessions of the Conferences of the Parties, 
Conferences of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and 
Conferences of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement, 
including decisions 1/CP.26, 1/CMP.1 6 and 1/CMA.3 (the Glasgow Climate Pact) , 
Also reaffirming  the critical role of multilateralism based on United Nations values 
and principles, including in the context of the implementation of the Convention and the Paris 
Agreement, and the importance of international cooperation for addressing  global issues, 
including climate change, in the context of sustainable development and efforts to eradicate 
poverty,  
Noting  the importance of transition ing to sustainable lifestyles and sustainable 
patterns of consumption and production in efforts to add ress climate change,  
Also noting  the importance of pursuing an approach to education that promotes a shift 
in lifestyles while fostering patterns of development and sustainability based on care, 
community and cooperation,  
Acknowledging  that climate chang e is a common concern of humankind and that 
Parties should, when taking action to address climate change, respect, promote and consider 
their respective obligations on human rights, the right to a clean, healthy and sustainable 
environment, the right to he alth, the rights of indigenous peoples, local communities, 
migrants, children, persons with disabilities and people in vulnerable situations and the right 
to development, as well as gender equality, empowerment of women and intergenerational 
equity,  
Notin g the importance of ensuring the integrity of all ecosystems, including in forests, 
the ocean and the cryosphere , and the protection of biodiversity, recognized by some cultures 
as Mother Earth, and also noting  the importance of ‘climate justice’, when taking action to 
address climate change,  
Emphasizing that enhanced effective climate action should be implemented in a 
manner that is just and inclusive  while minimizing negative social or economic impacts that 
may arise from climate action,  
Recognizing  the fundamental priority of safeguarding food security and ending 
hunger, and the particular vulnerabilities  of food production systems to the adverse impacts 
of climate change,  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.1  
 3 Also recognizing  the critical role  of protecting, conserving and restoring water 
systems and water -related ecosystems  in delivering climate adaptation benefits and co -
benefits, while ensuring social and environmental safeguards,  
1. Underlines  the urgent need to address, in a comprehensive and  synergetic manner, the 
interlinked global crises of climate change and biodiversity loss in the broader  context of 
achieving the Sustainable Development Goals, as well as the vital importance of protecting, 
conserving, restoring and sustainably using natu re and ecosystems for effective and 
sustainable climate action ; 
2. Acknowledges  that the impacts  of climate change exacerbate the global energy and 
food crises, and vice versa, particularly in developing countries ; 
3. Stresses  that the increasingly complex and  challenging global geopolitical situation 
and its impact on the energy, food and economic situations, as well as the additional 
challenges associated with the socioeconomic recovery from the coronavirus disease 2019 
pandemic, should not be used as a prete xt for backtracking, backsliding or de -prioritizing 
climate action;   
I. Science and urgency  
4. Welcomes  the contributions of Working Groups II1 and III2 to the Sixth Assessment 
Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change;  
5. Recognizes  the importance of the best available science for effective climate action 
and policymaking;  
6. Takes note  of the 2022 adaptation gap3 and emissions gap4 reports of the United 
Nations Environment Programme, and recent global and regional reports of the World 
Meteorological Organization on the state of the climate;5  
7. Reaffirms  the Paris Agreement temperature goal of holding the increase  in the global 
average temperature to well below 2 °C above pre -industrial levels and pursuing efforts to 
limit the temperature increase to 1.5 °C above pre -industrial levels, recognizing that this 
would significantly reduce the risks and impacts of climat e change;  
8. Reiterates  that the impacts of climate change will be much lower at the temperature 
increase of 1.5 °C compared with 2 °C6 and resolves  to pursue further efforts to limit the 
temperature increase to 1.5 °C;  
9. Recognizes  the impact s of climate chan ge on the cryosphere and the need for further 
understanding of these impacts, including of tipping points;  
 
 1 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. 2022. Climate Change 2022: Impacts, Adaptation, and 
Vulnerability. Contribution of Working Group II to the Sixth Assessment Report of the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change . H Pörtner, D Roberts, M Tignor, et al. (eds.). 
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Available at https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg2/ .  
 2 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. 2022. Climate Change 2022: Mitigation of Climate 
Change. Contribution of Working Group III to the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change . P Shukla, J Skea, R Slade, et al. (eds.). Cambridge and New York: 
Cambridge University Press. Available at https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg3/ .  
 3  See United N ations Environment Programme. 2022. Adaptation Gap Report 2022: Too Little, Too 
Slow - Climate adaptation failure puts world at risk . Nairobi: United Nations Environment 
Programme. Available at https://www.unep.org/resources/adaptation -gap-report -2022 .  
 4  See United Nations Environment Programme. 2022. Emissions Gap Report 2022: The Closing 
Window – Climate crisis calls for rapid transformation of societies . Nairobi: United Nations 
Environment Programme. Available at https://www.unep.org/resources/emissions -gap-report -2022 .  
 5  See, for example, World Meteorological Organization. 2022. State of the Global Clima te 2021 . 
Geneva: World Meteorological Organization. Available at 
https://library.wmo.int/index.php?lvl=notice_display&id=22080#.Y5cGUHbMKUk . 
 6 Decision 1/CP.26, para. 16, and decision 1/CMA.3, para. 21.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.1  
4  II. Enhancing ambition and implementation  
10. Resolves to implement ambitious, just, equitable and inclusive transitions to low -
emission and climate -resilie nt development in line with the principles and objectives of the 
Convention, the Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement, taking into account this decision, 
the Glasgow Climate Pact and other relevant decisions of the Conference of the Parties and 
the Confe rence of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement;  
11. Expresses  appreciation  to the Heads of State and Government who participated in the 
Sharm el -Sheikh Climate Implementation Summit for their support in enhancing and 
accelera ting the implementation of climate action;  
III. Energy  
12. Emphasizes  the urgent need for immediate, deep, rapid and sustained reductions in 
global greenhouse gas emissions by Parties across all applicable sectors, including through 
increasin g the use of low -emissi on and renewable energy,  just energy transition partnerships 
and other cooperative actions;  
13. Recognizes  that the unprecedented global energy crisis underlines the urgency to 
rapidly transform energy systems to be more secure, reliable and resilient, including by 
accelerating clean and just transitions to renewable energy during this critical decade of 
action;  
14. Stresses  the importance of enhancing a clean  energy mix, including low -emission and 
renewable energy, at all levels as part of divers ifying energy mixes and systems, in line with 
national circumstances and recognizing the need for support towards just transitions;  
IV. Mitigation  
15. Recognizes  that limiting global warming to 1.5 °C requires rapid, deep and sustained 
reductions in global greenho use gas emissions of 43 per cent by 2030 relative to the 2019 
level;  
16. Also recognizes  that this requires accelerated action in this critical decade, on the basis 
of equity and the best available scientific knowledge, reflecting common but differentiated 
responsibilities and respective capabilities , in the light of different national circumstances 
and in the context of sustainable development and efforts to eradicate poverty;  
17. Commends  efforts by Parties to communicate new or updated nationally determined 
contributions, long -term low greenhouse gas emission development strategies and other 
actions that demonstrate progress towards achieving the Paris Agreement temperature goal;  
18. Welcomes  the organization  of, and takes note  of the discussions at, the first annual  
high-level ministerial round table on pre -2030 ambition,7 held on 14 November 2022;  
19. Welcomes  the adoption of decision 4/CMA.4 on the mitigation work programme, 
which aims to urgently scale up mitigation ambition and implementation;  
20. Notes  with serious co ncern  the finding in the latest synthesis report8 on nationally 
determined contributions that the total global greenhouse gas emission level in 2030, taking 
into account implementation of all latest nationally determined contributions, is estimated to 
be 0.3 per cent below the 2019 level, which is not in  line with least -cost scenarios for keeping 
global temperature rise to 2 or 1.5  °C; 
21. Emphasizes  the urgent need for Parties to increase their efforts to collectively reduce 
emissions through accelerated action and implementation of domestic mitigation measu res 
in accordance with Article 4, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement;  
 
 7 Decision 1/CMA.3, para. 32.  
 8 FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/4.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.1  
 5 22. Urges  Parties that have not yet communicated new or updated nationally determined 
contributions to do so as soon as possible in advance of the fifth session of the Conference 
of the Par ties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement (November –
December 2023);  
23. Recalls  Article 3 and Article 4, paragraphs 3, 4, 5 and 11, of the Paris Agreement and 
requests  Parties that have not yet done so to revisit and strengthen the 2030 targets in their 
nationally determined contributions as necessary to align with the Paris Agreemen t 
temperature goal by the end of 2023, taking into account different national circumstances;  
24. Urges  Parties that have not yet done so to communicate, by the fifth session of the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Ag reement, long -
term low greenhouse gas emission development strategies referred to in Article 4, 
paragraph  19, of the Paris Agreement towards just transitions to net zero emissions by or 
around mid -century, taking into account different national circumstanc es; 
25. Reiterates9 its invitation to Parties to update the strategies referred to in paragraph 2 4 
above regularly, as appropriate, in line with the best available science;  
26. Requests  the secretariat to prepare a synthesis report on long -term low greenhouse gas  
emission development strategies referred to in Article 4, paragraph 19, of the Paris 
Agreement for consideration by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Paris Agreement at its fifth session;  
27. Notes  the importance of al igning nationally determined contributions with long -term 
low greenhouse gas emission development strategies;  
28. Calls  upon  Parties to accelerate the development, deployment and dissemination of 
technologies, and the adoption of policies , to transition toward s low -emission energy 
systems, including by rapidly scaling up the deployment of clean power generation and 
energy efficiency measures, including accelerating efforts towards the phasedown of 
unabated coal power and phase -out of inefficient fossil fuel sub sidies, while providing 
targeted support to the poorest and most vulnerable in line with national circumstances and 
recognizing the need for support towards a just transition;  
29. Reiterates10 its invitation to Parties to consider further actions to reduce by 2030 non -
carbon dioxide greenhouse gas emissions , including methane;  
30. Emphasizes  the importance  of protecting, conserving and restoring nature and 
ecosystems to achieve the Paris Agreement temperature goal, including through forests and 
other terrestrial an d marine ecosystems acting as sinks and reservoirs of greenhouse gases 
and by protecting biodiversity, while ensuring social and environmental safeguards;  
31. Recognizes  the importance of maximizing the positive and minimizing the negative 
economic and social impacts of the implementation  of response measures and welcomes  the 
adoption of decisions 20/CP.27, 7/CMP. 17 and 23/CMA.4;  
32. Emphasizes  Article 4, paragraph 5, of the Paris Agreement , which provides that 
support shall be provided to developing country Parties for the implementation of Article 4 
of the Paris Agreement, in accordance with Articles 9 –11, and recognizes  that enhanced 
support for developing country Parties w ill allow for higher ambition in their actions;   
V. Adaptation  
33. Notes with serious concern  the existing gap between current levels of adaptation and 
levels needed to respond to the adverse  effect s of climate change in line with findings from 
the contribution of Working Group II to the Sixth Assessment Report  of the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change ; 
 
 9 Decision 1/CMA.3, para. 33. 
 10 Decision 1/CMA.3, para.  37. FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.1  
6  34. Urges  Parties to adopt a transformational approach to enhancing adaptive capacity, 
strengthe ning resilience and reducing vulnerability  to climate change;  
35. Also urges  developed country Parties to urgently and significantly scale up their 
provision of climate finance, technology transfer  and capacity -building for adaptation so as 
to respond to the n eeds of developing country Parties as part of a global effort, including for 
the formulation and implementation of national adaptation plans and adaptation 
communications;  
36. Recognizes  the importance  of the global goal on adaptation for the effective 
impleme ntation of the Paris Agreement and recalls  decision 7/CMA.3, whereby the 
Glasgow –Sharm el -Sheikh work programme on the global goal on adaptation was established 
and launched;  
37. Welcomes  the progress made in the first year of the two -year Glasgow –Sharm el -
Sheikh work programme on the global goal on adaptation outlined in the report on the 
workshops held under the work programme,11 looks forward  to the conclusion  of the work 
programme at the fifth session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting  of the 
Parties to the Paris Agreement and welcomes  the robust programme of work for 2023 set out 
in decision 3/CMA.4;  
38. Stresses  the urgency of fulfilling the mandate of having a clear framework for the 
global goal on adaptation to guide the effective imple mentation  of Article 7 of the Paris 
Agreement;  
39. Recognizes  that the global goal on adaptation will contribute to reducing the risk of 
climate change impacts in the context of the long -term temperature goal set out in Article 2, 
paragraph 1(a), of the Paris Agreement , in line with different national circumstances, needs 
and priorities and in the context of sustainable development and poverty eradication;  
40. Also recognizes  the centrality of the role of the Adaptation Fund in the climate finance 
architecture, welcomes  the new pledges made at this session, urges  all contributors to fulfil 
their pledges in a timely manner and invites  the contributors to ensure the sustainability of 
the resources of the Fund;   
41. Highlights  the role of the Least Developed Countries Fund  and the Special Climate 
Change Fund in supporting actions by developing  countries to address climate change, 
welcomes  the pledges made to the two Funds and invites developed countries to further 
contribute to the two Funds;  
42. Requests the Standing Committee  on Finance to prepare a report on the doubling of 
adaptation finance, in line with paragraph 18 of decision  1/CMA.3 , for consideration by the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its 
fifth session;  
43. Emphasizes  the importance  of protecting, conserving and restoring water and water -
related ecosystems, including river basins, aquifers and lakes, and urges  Parties to further 
integrate water into adaptation efforts;  
VI. Loss and damage  
44. Notes  with grave  concern , according to information in the contributions of  Working 
Groups II and III to the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change, the growing gravity, scope and frequency in all regions of loss and damage 
associated with  the adverse effects of climate change, resulting in devastating economic and 
non-economic losses, including forced displacement and impacts on cultural heritage, human 
mobility and the lives and livelihoods of local communities, and underlines  the importa nce 
of an adequate and effective response to loss and damage;  
 
 11  FCCC/SB/2022/INF.2.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.1  
 7 45. Expresses  deep concern  regarding the significant financial costs associated with loss 
and damage for developing countries, resulting in a growing debt burden and impairing the 
realization of the  Sustainable Development  Goals;  
46. Welcomes  the consideration, for the first time, of matters relating to funding 
arrangements responding to loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate 
change, including a focus on addressing loss and damage , under the Conference of the Parties 
and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement 
and also welcomes  the adoption of decisions 2/CP.27 and 2/CMA.4, on  matters relating to 
funding arrangements responding to loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of 
climate change;  
47. Further  welcomes  the adoption of decisions 11/CP.27 and 12/CMA.4, establishing the 
institutional arrangements of the Santiago network for averting, minimizing and addressing 
loss and da mage associated with the adverse  effects of climate change to enable its full 
operationalization, including supporting its mandated role in catalysing technical assistance 
for the implementation of the relevant approaches at the local, national and regiona l level in 
developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change, 
and affirms  its determination to select the host of the secretariat of the Santiago network by 
2023 through a selection process conducted in an open,  transparent, fair and neutral manner 
in accordance with the process outlined in paragraphs 1 9–23 of the decisions referred to 
above ; 
VII. Early warning and systematic observation  
48. Emphasizes  the need to address existing gaps in the Global Climate Observing 
System, particularly in developing countries , and recognizes  that one third of the world, 
including 60 per cent of Africa, does not have access to early warning and climate 
information services, as well as the need to enhance coordination of activities by the 
systematic observation community and the ability to provide useful and actionable climate 
informat ion for mitigation, adaptation and early warning systems, as well as information to 
enable understanding of adaptation limits and of attribution of extreme events;  
49. Welcomes  and reiterates  the United Nations Secretary -General’s call made on World 
Meteorolog ical Day on 23 March 2022  to protect everyone on Earth through universal 
coverage of early warning systems against extreme weather and climate change within the 
next five years and invites  development partners, international financial institutions and the 
operating entities of the Financial Mechanism to provide support for implementation of the 
Early Warnings for All initiative;  
VIII.  Implementation – pathways to just transition  
50. Affirms  that sustainable  and just solutions to the climate crisis must be founded on 
meaningful and effective social  dialogue and participation of all stakeholders and notes that 
the global transition to low emissions provides opportunities and challenges for sustainable 
economic development and poverty eradication;  
51. Emphasizes  that just an d equitable transition encompasses pathways that include 
energy, socioeconomic, workforce and other dimensions, all of which must be based on 
nationally defined development priorities and include social  protection so as to mitigate 
potential impacts associ ated with the transition, and highlights  the important role of the 
instruments related to social solidarity and protection in mitigating the impacts of applied 
measures;  
52. Decides  to establish a work programme on just transition for discussion of pathways 
to achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement outlined in Article 2, paragraph 1, in the context 
of Article 2, paragraph 2, and requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation and the 
Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice to recommend a dr aft decision on 
this matter for consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its fifth session, with the work programme FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.1  
8  to be implemented in a manner that builds on and compleme nts the relevant workstreams 
under the Convention and the Paris Agreement, including the work programme for urgently 
scaling up mitigation ambition and implementation;  
53. Decides  to convene, as part of the work programme on just transition, an annual high -
level ministerial round table on just transition, beginning at its fifth session;  
IX. Finance  
54. Reiterate s Articles 2, 4 and 9 of the Paris Agreement and highlights  that about 
USD  4 trillion per year needs to be invested in clean energy technologies by 2030 to be a ble 
to reach net zero emissions by 2050,12 and that, furthermore, a global transformation  to a low -
carbon economy is expected to require  an investment of at least USD 4 –6 trillion per year;13 
55. Also highlights  that delivering such funding will require a transformation of the 
financial system and its structures and processes, engaging  governments, central banks, 
commercial banks, institutional investors and other financial actors;  
56. Notes with concern  the growing gap between the needs of developing country Parties, 
in particular those due to the increasing impacts of climate change and their increased 
indebtedness, and the support provided and mobilized for their efforts to implement their 
nationally determined con tributions, highlighting that such needs are currently estimated at 
USD 5.8 –5.9 trillion14 for the pre -2030 period;  
57. Expresses  serious concern  that the goal of developed country Parties to mobilize 
jointly USD 100 billion per year by 2020 in the context of meaningful mitigation action and 
transparency on implementation has not yet been met and urges  developed country Parties to 
meet the goal;15 
58. Emphasizes  that accelerated financial support for developing countries from 
developed countries and other sources i s critical to enhancing mitigation action and 
addressing inequities in access to finance, including its costs, terms and conditions, and 
economic vulnerability to climate change for developing countries,16 and that scaled -up 
public grants for mitigation an d adaptation for vulnerable regions, in particular sub -Saharan 
Africa,  would be cost -effective and have high social returns in terms of access to basic 
energy;  
59. Notes  that global climate finance flows are small relative to the overall needs of 
developing co untries, with such flows in 2019 –2020 estimated  to be USD 803 billion,17 
which is 31 –32 per cent of the annual investment needed to keep the global temperature rise 
well below 2 °C or at 1.5 °C, and also below what would be expected in the light of the 
investment opportunities identified and the cost of failure to meet climate  stabilization 
targets;  
 
 12 See International Energy Agency . 2022. World Energy Outlook 2022 . Paris: I nternational Energy 
Agency . Available at https://www.iea.org/reports/world -energy -outlook -2022 . 
 13 As footnote 5 above.   
 14 See Standing Committee on Finance . 2021. First report on the determination of the needs of 
developing country Parties related to implementing the Convention and the Paris Agreement . Bonn: 
UNFCCC. Available at  https://unfccc.int/topics/climate -finance/workstreams/needs -report .  
 15 See Standing Committee on Finance. 2022. Report on progress towards achieving the goal of 
mobilizing jointly USD 100 billion per year to address the needs of developing countries in the 
context of meaningful mitigation actions and transparency on implementation . Bonn: UNFCCC. 
Available at https://unfccc.int/process -and-meetings/bodies/constituted -bodies/standing -committee -
on-finance -scf/progress -report . 
 16 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. 2022. Summary for Policymakers. In: H Pörtner, D 
Roberts, M Tignor, et al. (eds.). Climate Chang e 2022: Impacts, Adaptation, and Vulnerability. 
Contribution of Working Group II to the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change . Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Available at 
https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg2/ . 
 17 See document FCCC/CP/2022/8/Add.1−FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/7/Add.1 . FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.1  
 9 60. Urges  developed country Parties to provide enhanced support, including through 
financial resources, technology transfer and capacity -building, to assist developing country 
Parties with respect to both mitigation and adaptation, in c ontinuation of their existing 
obligations under the Convention, and encourages  other Parties to provide or continue to 
provide such support voluntarily;  
61. Calls  on the shareholders of multilateral development banks and international 
financial institutions to  reform  multilateral development bank practices and priorities, align 
and scale up funding, ensure simplified access and mobilize climate finance  from various 
sources and encourages  multilateral development banks to define a new vision and 
commensurate ope rational model, channels and instruments that are fit for the purpose of 
adequately addressing the global climate emergency, including deploying a full suite of 
instruments, from grants to guarantees and non -debt instruments, taking into account debt 
burde ns, and to address risk appetite, with a view to substantially increasing climate finance;   
62. Calls  on multilateral development banks to contribute to significantly increasing 
climate ambition using the breadth of their policy and financial instruments for g reater 
results, including on private capital mobilization, and to ensure higher  financial efficiency 
and maximize use of existing concessional and risk capital vehicles to drive innovation and 
accelerate impact;  
63. Welcomes  the work in 2022 of the co -chairs o f the ad hoc work programme on the 
new collective quantified goal on climate finance, the deliberations at the 2022 high -level 
ministerial dialogue on the new collective quantified goal and the report prepared  by the 
President of the twenty -seventh session  of the Conference of the Parties;  
64. Requests  the co -chairs of the ad hoc work programme to include in their annual report 
options for accelerating the achievement of the goal in Article 2 of the Paris Agreement of 
holding the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2 °C above pre -
industrial levels and pursuing efforts to limit the temperature to 1.5 °C above pre -industrial 
levels;  
65. Welcomes  the adoption of decision  5/CMA.4, on the new collective quantified goal 
on climate finance ; 
66. Emphasizes  the ongoing challenges faced by many developing country Parties in 
accessing climate finance and encourages  further efforts, including  by the operating entities 
of the Financial Mechanism, to simplify access to such finance;  
67. Takes  note of the re port on the determination of the needs of developing country 
Parties related to implementing the Convention and the Paris Agreement18 and in this context 
urges  developed country Parties to provide resources for the second replenishment of the 
Green Climate  Fund while demonstrating progression from the  previous replenishment and 
in line with the programming capacity of the Fund;  
68. Decides  to launch the Sharm el -Sheikh dialogue between Parties, relevant 
organizations and stakeholders to exchange views on and enhance understanding of the scope 
of Article 2, paragraph 1(c), of the Paris Agreement and its complementarity with Article 9 
of the Paris Agreement and requests  the secretariat, under the guidance of the Presidency of 
the twenty -seventh session of the Conf erence of the Parties, to organize two workshops in 
2023 in this regard and to prepare a report to the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement on the deliberations at these workshops;  
X. Technology transfer and d eployment  
69. Welcomes  with appreciation  the first joint work programme of the Technology 
Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Centre and Network,19 for 2023 –2027, 
which will facilitate the transformational change needed to achieve the goals of the 
 
 18 See S tanding Committee on Finance . 2021. First report on the determination of the needs of 
developing country Parties related to implementing t he Convention and the Paris Agreement . Bonn: 
UNFCCC. Available at  https://unfccc.int/topics/climate -finance/workstreams/needs -report .  
 19 See https://unfccc.int/ttclear/tec/documents.html .  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.1  
10  Convention and the Paris Agreement, invites  Parties and stakeholders to cooperate and 
engage with the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Centre and 
Network to support the implementation of the joint work programme activities, includin g on 
technology needs assessments, action plans and road maps, acknowledges  the findings in the 
final report on the first periodic assessment of the effectiveness and adequacy of the support 
provided to the Technology Mechanism in supporting the implementa tion of the Paris 
Agreement20 and decides  that the main challenges identified therein should be considered 
under the global stocktake;  
70. Highlights  the importance of cooperation on technology development and transfer and 
innovation in implementing the joint work programme activities;   
XI. Capacity -building  
71. Notes  that capacity gaps and needs still exist in developing countries and calls on  
developed country Parties to increase support for long -term country -driven capacity -building 
interventions to enhance the effectiveness, success and sustainability of those interventions;  
XII. Transparency  
72. Recalls  that Parties shall submit their first biennial  transparency report , and national 
inventory report if submitted as a stand -alone report , at the latest by 31 December 2024 and 
urges  Parties to swiftly make the necessary preparations for ensuring timely submission 
thereof;  
73. Recognizes  the importance of th e provision of increased support, in a timely, adequate 
and predictable manner, to developing countries  for implementing the enhanced transparency 
framework under the Paris Agreement;  
XIII.  Taking stock  
74. Welcomes  the progress of the first global stocktake and notes with appreciation  the 
balanced, comprehensive and inclusive  nature of the technical dialogue of that stocktake;  
75. Emphasizes  that the outcome of the first global stocktake shall inform Parties in 
updating and enhancing, in a nationally determined manner, their actions and support in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of the Paris Agreement, as well as in enhancing 
international cooperation on climate action;  
76. Urges  all stakeholders involved in the first global stocktake to focus on achieving the 
outcom e referred to in Article 14, paragraph 3, of the Paris Agreement;  
77. Welcomes  the invitation of the United Nations Secretary -General to convene a climate 
ambition summit in 2023 ahead of the conclusion of the first global stocktake at the 
twenty -eighth sessio n of the Conference of the Parties and the fifth session of the Conference 
of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement (November –
December 2023);  
XIV. Article 6 of the Paris Agreement  
78. Welcomes  the adoption  of decisions 6/CMA.4, 7/CMA.4 and 8/CMA.4, on issues 
relating to Article 6 of the Paris Agreement;  
 
 20 FCCC/SBI/2022/13.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.1  
 11 XV. Ocean  
79. Encourages Parties to consider, as appropriate, ocean -based action in their national 
climate goals and in the implementation of these goals, including  but not limited to nationally 
determined contributions, long -term strategies and adaptation communications;  
XVI. Forest  
80. Recalls Article 5, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement, whereby Parties are 
encouraged to take action to implement and support, including t hrough results -based 
payments, the existing framework as set out in related guidance  and decisions already agreed 
under the Convention21 for policy approaches and positive incentives for activities relating to 
reducing emissions from deforestation and fore st degradation, and the role of conservation, 
sustainable management of forests and enhancement of forest carbon stocks in developing 
countries; and alternative policy approaches, such as joint mitigation and adaptation 
approaches for the integral and sust ainable management of forests, while reaffirming the 
importance of incentivizing, as appropriate, non -carbon benefits associated with such 
approaches ; 
81. Encourages  Parties to consider, as appropriate, nature -based solutions or ecosystem -
based approaches, taking into consideration United  Nations Environment Assembly 
resolution 5/5,22 for their mitigation and adaptation action while ensuring relevant social and 
enviro nmental safeguards;  
XVII.  Enhancing implementation: action by non -Party stakeholders  
82. Acknowledges the engagement of non -Party stakeholders in climate action, which 
complements and broadens it, while recognizing  the pivotal role of governments in action on 
climat e change within the framework of the Convention, the Kyoto Protocol and the Paris 
Agreement;  
83. Recognizes  the important role of indigenous peoples, local communities, cities and 
civil society, including youth and children, in addressing and responding to cli mate change 
and highlights  the urgent need for multilevel and cooperative action  in this regard;  
84. Notes the adoption of the action plan under the Glasgow work programme on Action 
for Climate Empowerment by decision 23/CP.27;  
85. Encourages Parties to increase the full, meaningful and equal participation of women 
in climate action and to ensure gender -responsive  implementation and means of 
implementation, including by fully implementing the Lima work programme on gender and 
its gender action plan, to raise clima te ambition and achieve climate goals;  
86. Invites Parties to provide  support to developing countries for undertaking gender -
related action and implementing the gender action plan;  
87. Recognizes  the role of children and youth as agents of change in addressing an d 
responding to climate change and encourages  Parties to include children and youth in their 
processes for designing and implementing climate policy  and action, and, as appropriate, to 
consider including young representatives and negotiators into their nat ional delegations, 
recognizing the importance of intergenerational equity and maintaining the stability of the 
climate system for future generations;  
88. Expresses  its appreciation  to the Presidency of the twenty -seventh session of the 
Conference of the Parti es for its leadership in promoting  the full, meaningful and equal 
participation of children and youth, including by co -organizing the first youth -led climate 
forum (the Sharm el -Sheikh youth climate dialogue), hosting the first children and youth 
pavilion and appointing the first youth envoy of a Presidency of the Conference of the Parties 
 
 21  Including decisions 1/CP.16 and 9/CP.19.  
 22  UNEP/EA.5/Res.5 .  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.1  
12  and encourages  future incoming Presidencies of the Conference of the Parties to consider 
doing the same;  
89. Expresses  its appreciation  to the children and youth constituency  for co -organizing 
the Sharm el -Sheikh youth climate dialogue with the Presidency of the twenty -seventh 
session of the Conference of the Parties and notes  the outcomes of the seventeenth 
Conference of Youth, organized by the constituency and held in Sharm el-Sheikh in 
November 2022;  
90. Encourages  Parties and non -Party stakeholders to engage actively in the Marrakech 
Partnership for Global Climate Action;  
91. Welcomes  the leadership of the Presidency of the Conference of the Parties and the 
high-level champions, i n particular in the context of the Sharm el -Sheikh Adaptation Agenda 
and the Breakthrough Agenda, and the collaboration between Parties and non -Party 
stakeholders, and emphasizes  the need for continued acceleration and collaboration;  
92. Welcomes  the recommend ations of the High -Level Expert Group on the Net -Zero 
Emissions Commitments of Non -State Entities , launched by the United Nations Secretary -
General in March 2022, which are designed to enhance transparency and accountability 
related to, and progress in ach ieving, the climate pledges of businesses, investors, cities and 
regions;  
93. Invites  the secretariat to ensure greater accountability of voluntary initiatives through 
the Non -State Actor Zone for Climate Action platform;23 
94. Welcomes  the convening of five regio nal forums led by the President of the twenty -
seventh session of the Conference of the Parties and the high -level champions, in 
collaboration with the United Nations Regional Economic Commissions, on initiatives for 
financing climate action and the Sustain able Development Goals.  
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
 
 
 23  https://climateaction.unfccc.int/ . FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.1  
 13 Decision 2/CMA.4  
 Funding arrangements for responding to loss and damage 
associated with the adverse effects of climate change, 
including a focus on addressing loss and damage1 
The Conference of the Parties and the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement , 
Recalling  the Convention and the Paris Agreement,  
Noting  the increasing urgency of enhancing efforts to avert, minimize and address loss 
and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change in the light of continued 
global w arming and its significant impacts on vulnerable populations and the ecosystems on 
which they depend, as illustrated by the findings in relevant recent scientific reports, 
including the contributions of Working Groups I2 and II3 to the Sixth Assessment Report of 
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change,  
Also noting  that keeping the global average temperature rise to below 1.5 °C will be 
essential to limiting future loss and damage and expressing alarm  that the contribution of 
Working Group II to the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change, in line with other  best available science, concluded that the gravity, scope and 
frequency of loss and damage will continue to increase with every addition al fraction of a 
degree of temperature increase,  
Recalling  previous work under the UNFCCC as part of the consideration of the current 
state of finance for addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate 
change,4 
Acknowledging  the many institutions and stakeholders involved in financing activities 
for averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects 
of climate change, including extreme weather events and slow onset events,  
Welcoming  related  initiatives announced at the twenty -seventh session of the 
Conference of the Parties, including, but not limited to, the Global Shield against Climate 
Risks and the United Nations Secretary -General’s Early Warnings for All,  
Acknowledging that existing fu nding arrangements fall short of responding to current 
and future impacts of climate change and are not sufficient to address the existing funding 
gaps related to providing action and support in responding to loss and damage associated 
with the adverse eff ects of climate change,  
Recalling paragraph s 7(b) and 2 of the reports on these sessions of the  Conference of 
the Parties and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
 
 1 This item and the outcomes thereof are without prejudice to the consideration of similar issues in the  
future . 
 2 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. 2021. Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science 
Basis. Contribution of Working Group I to the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change . V Masson -Delmotte, P Zhai, A Pirani, et al. ( eds.). Cambridge: Cambridge 
University Press. Available at https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg1/ . 
 3 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. 2022. Climate Change 2022: Impacts, Adaptation, and 
Vulnerabil ity. Contribution of Working Group II to the Sixth Assessment Report of the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change . H Pörtner, D Roberts, M Tignor, et al. (eds.). 
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Available at https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg2/ . 
 4 Including but not limited to the 2016 Forum of the Standing Committee of Finance on financial 
instruments that addre ss the risks  of loss and damage, a technical paper on the elaboration of the 
sources of and modalities for accessing financial support for addressing loss and damage 
(FCCC/TP/2019/1), the Suva expert dialogue on loss and damage associated with climate change 
impacts , and the 1st Glasgow Dialogue, to discuss funding arrangements for activities to avert, 
minimize and address loss and damage.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.1  
14  Agreement  respectively , in relation to the adopt ion of agenda sub -item 8(f), “Matters relating 
to finance: matters relating to funding arrangements responding to loss and damage 
associated with the adverse effects of climate change, including a focus on addressing loss 
and damage”,  
1. Acknowledge  the urgent and immediate need for new, additional, predictable and 
adequate financial resources to assist developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to 
the adverse effects of climate change in responding to economic and non -economic loss and 
damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change, including extreme weather 
events and slow onset events, especially in the context of ongoing and ex post (including 
rehabilitation, recovery and reconstruction) action;  
2. Decide  to establish new fun ding arrangements for assisting developing countries that 
are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change, in responding to loss and 
damage, including with a focus on addressing loss and damage by providing and assisting in 
mobilizing new and additional resources, and that these new arrangements complement and 
include sources, funds, processes and initiatives under and outside  the Convention and the 
Paris Agreement;  
3. Also decide , in the context of establishing the new funding arrangement s referred to 
in paragraph 2 above, to establish a fund for responding to loss and damage whose mandate 
includes a focus on addressing loss and damage;  
4. Establish  a transitional committee on the operationalization of the new funding 
arrangements for respond ing to loss and damage and the fund established in paragraph 3 
above (hereinafter referred to as the Transitional Committee) , in accordance with the terms 
of reference contained in the annex, to make recommendations based on, inter alia, elements 
for opera tionalization included in paragraph 5 below, for consideration and adoption by the 
Conference of the Parties at its twenty -eighth session (November –December 2023) and the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreemen t at its 
fifth session (November –December 2023)  with a view to operationalizing the funding 
arrangements referred to in paragraph 2 above , including the fund referred to in paragraph 3 
above;  
5. Agree that the recommendations to operationalize the funding arr angements  and the 
fund referred to in paragraphs 2 –3 above respectively shall consider,  inter alia:  
(a) Establishing institutional arrangements, modalities, structure, governance and 
terms of reference for the fund  referred to in paragraph 3 above ; 
(b) Defining the elements of the new funding arrangements referred to in 
paragraph 2 abov e; 
(c) Identifying and expanding sources of funding;  
(d) Ensuring coordination and complementarity with existing funding 
arrangements;  
6. Decide  that the Transitional Committee refer red to in paragraph 4 above will be 
informed by the following, inter alia:  
(a) The current landscape of institutions, including global, regional and national, 
that are funding activities related to addressing loss and damage, and ways in which 
coherence, coord ination and synergies among them can be enhanced;  
(b) The gaps within that current landscape, including the types of gap, such as 
relating to speed, eligibility, adequacy and access to finance, noting that these may vary 
depending on the challenge, such as cli mate -related emergencies, sea level rise, 
displacement, relocation, migration, insufficient climate information and data, or the need for 
climate -resilient reconstruction and recovery;  
(c) The priority gaps for which solutions should be explored;   
(d) The most effective ways in which to address the gaps, especially for the most 
vulnerable populations and the ecosystems on which they depend;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.1  
 15 (e) Potential sources of funding, recognizing the need for support from a wide 
variety of sources, including innovative sources ; 
7. Also decide  to undertake the following activities for informing the recommendations 
referred to in paragraphs 4 –5 above:  
(a) Request the secretariat to conduct two workshops in 2023, with the 
participation of a diversity of institutions, relevant to addressi ng loss and damage associated 
with climate change impacts;  
(b) Request the secretariat to prepare a synthesis report on existing funding 
arrangements and innovative sources relevant to addressing loss and damage associated with 
the adverse effects of climate c hange ; 
(c) Invite Parties and relevant organizations to submit via the submission portal5 
by 15 February 2023 views on topics for and the structure of the 2nd Glasgow Dialogue6 and 
the workshops referred to in paragraph 7(a) above;  
(d) Invite United Nations agen cies, intergovernmental organizations, and bilateral, 
multilateral and international financial institutions to submit inputs on how they might 
enhance access to and/or the speed, scope and scale of availability of finance for activities 
relevant to address ing loss and damage, including potential limitations and barriers and 
options for addressing them;  
8. Further decide  that the activities and considerations referred to in this decision will 
be undertaken taking into account the discussions at the 2nd and 3rd Glasgow Dialogues, to 
take place at the fifty -eighth (June 2023) and sixtieth (June 2024) sessions of the Subsidiary 
Body for Implementation respectively;  
9. Decide  that the 2nd and 3rd Glasgow Dialogues will build on the 1st Glasgow Dialogue, 
held at the fif ty-sixth session of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation, and that the 2nd 
Dialogue shall focus on the operationalization of the new funding arrangements established 
in paragraph 2 above and the fund established in paragraph 3 above as well as on maximiz ing 
support from existing funding arrangements relevant for, inter alia, responding to economic 
and non -economic losses, slow onset events and extreme weather events, and that they will 
inform the work of the Transitional Committee;  
10. Request  the Chair of th e Subsidiary Body for Implementation to provide a summary 
report on each Glasgow Dialogue no later than four weeks thereafter;  
11. Invite the United Nations Secretary -General to convene the principals of international 
financial institutions and other relevant entities with a view to identifying the most effective 
ways to provide funding to respond to needs related to addressing loss and damage associated 
with the adverse effects of climate change;  
12. Also invite international financial institutions to consider, at  the 2023 Spring Meetings 
of the World Bank Group and the International Monetary Fund, the potential for such 
institutions to contribute to funding arrangements, including new and innovative approaches, 
responding to loss and damage  associated with the adv erse effects of climate change ; 
13. Reiterate  decision 1/CMA.3, paragraph 64, in which developed country Parties, the 
operating entities of the Financial Mechanism, United Nations entities and intergovernmental 
organizations and other bilateral and multilatera l institutions, including non -governmental 
organizations and private sources, are urged to provide enhanced and additional support for 
activities addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change;  
14. Request the President of the  Conference of the Parties at its twenty -seventh session, 
in collaboration with the incoming President of the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -
eighth session, to convene ministerial consultations prior to the twenty -eighth session of the 
Conference of the Parties and the fifth session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement to advance consideration and understanding of 
a possible outcome on this matter at that session;  
 
 5 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstagin g/Pages/Home.aspx . 
 6 See d ecision 1/CMA.3, para. 73.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.1  
16  15. Also request  the secretariat  to prepare a synthesis report on the outcomes of th e 
activities and deliverables referred to in paragraphs 7(b), 11, 12 and 14 above to inform the 
recommendations to be developed by the Transitional Committee;  
16. Decide  that the secretariat shall support and facilitate the work of the Transitional 
Committee ; 
17. Take note of  the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 2 –16 above;  
18. Request  that the action s of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources . 
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.1  
 17 Annex  
  Terms of reference for the Transitional Committee on the 
operationalization of the new funding arrangements for 
responding to loss and damage and the associated fund  
I. Mandate  
1. The Transitional Committee will make recommendations for consideration by the 
Conference of the Parties (COP) at its twenty -eighth session  (November –December 2023) 
and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreeme nt 
(CMA) at its fifth session  (November –December 2023) in accordance with paragraphs 4 –5 
of this decision.  
2. The Transitional Committee will serve as a coordination mechanism that guides and 
oversees, as appropriate, the activities referred to in paragraph 7  of this decision.  
3. The work of the Transitional Committee will be concluded with the adoption no later 
than at COP 28 and CMA 5 of decision(s)  related to the new funding arrangements 
responding to loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of clim ate change, 
including a focus on addressing loss and damage, and the fund established in paragraph 3 of 
this decision.  
II. Composition  
4. The Transitional Committee shall have 24 members, to be nominated no later than 15 
December 2022, comprising 10 members from developed country Parties and 14 members 
from developing country Parties with geographical representation as follows:  
(a) Three members from Africa, including a representative of the President of 
COP 27;  
(b) Three members from Asia and the Pacific, including a representative of the 
incoming President of COP 28;  
(c) Three members from Latin America and the Caribbean;  
(d) Two members from small island developing States;  
(e) Two members from the least developed countries;  
(f) One member from a developing country Party not included in the categories 
listed above.  
III. Modalities  of work  
5. The Transitional Committee shall be chaired by two co -chairs, one from a developed 
country Party and one from a developing country Party.  
6. The Transitional Committee will hold at least three meetings . 
7. The UNFCCC Executive Secretary, in consultation with the President of COP 27, will 
convene the 1st meeting of the Transitional Committee  no later than  on 31 March 2023.  
8. Recommendations  of the Transitional Committee shall be adopted  by consensus.  
9. The Transitional  Committee  will be guided by the best available science in conducting 
its work.  
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.1  
18  Decision 3/CMA.4  
Glasgow–Sharm el -Sheikh work programme on the global 
goal on adaptation referred to in decision 7/CMA.3  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Pa ris 
Agreement , 
Recalling  Article 7, paragraph 1, of the Paris Agreement, in which Parties established 
the global goal on adaptation of enhancing adaptive capacity, strengthening resilience and 
reducing vulnerability to climate change with a view to contri buting to sustainable 
development and ensuring an adequate adaptation response in the context of the temperature 
goal referred to in Article 2 of the Agreement,  
Also recalling  decision 7/CMA.3,  
Emphasizing  that efforts to achieve the global goal on adapt ation must focus on 
reducing the increasing adverse impacts, risks and vulnerabilities associated with climate 
change,  
1. Welcomes  the four workshops held under the Glasgow –Sharm el -Sheikh work 
programme on the global goal on adaptation in 2022;1 
2. Expresses  appreciation  to the Chairs of the subsidiary bodies for their guidance on 
and to the secretariat for its support in conducting informative and engaging workshops under 
the Glasgow –Sharm el -Sheikh work programme in 2022, as well as to the moderator s, 
experts, Parties and non -Party stakeholders that participated in the workshops for their 
contributions and engagement;  
3. Also expresses  appreciation  to the Government of Maldives for hosting an informal 
launch workshop and to the Government of Egypt for h osting the third workshop under the 
Glasgow –Sharm el -Sheikh work programme in 2022;  
4. Notes  that the single annual report on the workshops referred to in paragraph 16 of 
decision 7/CMA.3 and the summaries of each workshop therein will serve as input to Parti es’ 
further considerations under the Glasgow –Sharm el -Sheikh work programme;  
5. Notes  with appreciation  the compilation and synthesis of indicators, approaches, 
targets and metrics for reviewing overall progress in achieving the global goal on 
adaptation,2, 3 building on the 2021 technical report by the Adaptation Committee;4 
6. Notes  the challenges associated with holding the 2022 workshops under the Glasgow –
Sharm el -Sheikh work programme virtually, with preparing for those workshops in a timely 
manner and w ith producing the single annual report on those workshops5 in time for 
consideration at this session;  
7. Recognizes  that adaptation is a global challenge faced by all with local, subnational, 
national, regional and international dimensions, and that it is a key component of and makes 
a contribution to the long -term global response to climate change to protect people, 
livelihoods and ecosystems;  
8. Decides to initiate the development of a framework for the global goal on adaptation 
to be undertaken through a structured approach under the Glasgow –Sharm el -Sheikh work 
programme in 2023, containing the elements referred to in paragraph 10 below, with a view 
 
 1 See decision 7/CMA.3, para. 12.  
 2 Available at https://unfccc.int/sites/default/files/resource/ReportGGATP_final .pdf. 
 3 As per the mandate in document FCCC/SBSTA/2022/6, para. 157.  
 4 Adaptation Committee. 2021. Approaches to reviewing the overall progress made in achieving the 
global goal on adaptation . Bonn: UNFCCC. Available at https://unfccc.int/documents/309030 . 
 5 FCCC/SB/2022/INF.2 .  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.1  
 19 to the framework being adopted at the fifth session of the Conference of the Parties serving 
as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement (November –December 2023) ; 
9. Also decides that the framework referred to in parag raph 8 above will guide the 
achievement of the global goal on adaptation and the review of overall progress in achieving 
it with a view to reducing the increasing adverse impacts, risks and vulnerabilities associated 
with climate change, as well as enhance  adaptation action and support;  
10. Further decides that the framework, through the structured approach referred to in 
paragraph 8 above, may take into consideration, inter alia:  
(a) Dimensions (iterative adaptation cycle) : impact, vulnerability and risk 
assessmen t; planning; implementation; and monitoring, evaluation and learning; recognizing  
that support in terms of finance, capacity -building and technology transfer is a consideration 
in each stage of the cycle;  
(b) Themes: water; food and agriculture; cities, settle ments and key infrastructure; 
health; poverty and livelihoods; terrestrial and freshwater ecosystems; and oceans and coastal 
ecosystems; tangible cultural heritage; mountain regions; and biodiversity;  
(c) Cross -cutting considerations: country -driven, gender -responsive, participatory 
and fully transparent approaches, human rights approaches, intergenerational equity and 
social justice , taking into consideration vulnerable groups, communities and ecosystems, and 
nature -based solutions, and based on and guided by the best available science including 
science -based indicators, metrics and targets, as appropriate, traditional knowledge, 
knowledge of indigenous peoples and local knowledge systems, ecosystem -based a daptation, 
nature -based solutions, community -based adaptation, disaster risk reduction and 
intersectional approaches with a view to integrating adaptation into relevant socioeconomic 
and environmental policies and actions, where appropriate;  
(d) Sources of inf ormation including those referred to in decision 19/CMA.1, 
paragraph 37, namely:  
(i) Reports and communications from Parties, in particular those submitted under 
the Paris Agreement and the Convention;  
(ii) The latest reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Clim ate Change;  
(iii) Reports of the subsidiary bodies;  
(iv) Reports from relevant constituted bodies and forums and other institutional 
arrangements under or serving the Paris Agreement and/or the Convention;  
(v) The synthesis reports by the secretariat referred to in pa ragraph 23 of that 
decision;  
(vi) Relevant reports from United Nations agencies and other international 
organizations, which should be supportive of the UNFCCC process;  
(vii) Voluntary submissions from Parties, including on inputs to inform equity 
considerations un der the global stocktake;  
(viii) Relevant reports from regional groups and institutions;  
(ix) Submissions from non -Party stakeholders and UNFCCC observer 
organizations;  
11. Decides  to review the framework referred to in paragraph 8 above prior to the second 
global stock take;  
12. Also decides  that the four workshops under the Glasgow –Sharm el -Sheikh work 
programme in 2023 will all be held in person, with the option available for participants to 
actively take part virtually;  
13. Further decides  to hold the first workshop in 2023 no later than in March and the 
fourth workshop in 2023 no later than six weeks prior to the fifth session of the Conference 
of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.1  
20  14. Requests  the secretariat to publish the single annual report on the workshops for 2023 
no later than three weeks prior to the fifth session of the Conference of the Parties serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement;  
15. Also requests the secretariat to include in the single annual report an ana lysis of the 
outcomes of the workshops and to prepare, under the guidance of the Chairs of the subsidiary 
bodies, a summary of each workshop to be published prior to each subsequent workshop for 
consideration at the fifty-ninth sessions of the subsidiary b odies (November –December 
2023) ; 
16. Invites  Parties and observers to submit by the end of February 2023, via the 
submission portal,6 their contributions to and views on the workshops to be held in 2023, 
including questions related to the themes of those works hops ; 
17. Also invites Parties and observers that wish to do so to submit over the course of 2023, 
via the submission portal, additional views on the workshops to be held in 2023, noting that 
views pertaining to a specific workshop should be submitted three we eks in advance thereof;  
18. Further invites Parties and observers that wish to do so, following the final workshop 
in 2023 , to submit their views on the outcomes of and work conducted under the Glasgow –
Sharm el -Sheikh work programme via the submission portal prior to the fifth session of the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement ;  
19. Requests  the Chairs of the subsidiary bodies, with the support of the secretariat, to 
prepare a concept note and guiding questions, covering themes and areas of work for each 
workshop based on the elements contained in paragraph 10 above, at least two weeks in 
advance thereof, taking into account the submissions referred to in paragraphs 16 –17 above;  
20. Also requests the Chairs of the subsidiary bodies to select themes for the workshops 
to be held in 2023, taking into account the following areas:  
(a) Target -setting, metrics, methodologies and indicators for the global goal on 
adaptation;  
(b) Means of implementation for achieving the global goal on adaptation;  
(c) The steps of an iterative adaptation cycle: risk and impact assessment; 
planning; implementation; and moni toring, evaluation and learning;  
(d) The systems and sectors set out in the contribution of Working Group II to the 
Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change,7 with a focus 
on exploring options for enhancing efforts to mainstrea m adaptation in national priority areas 
or sectors;  
(e) Gender -responsiveness; intergenerational and gender equity and social justice; 
ecosystem - and community -based adaptation; governance at the local, national and regional 
level; transboundary approaches; p rivate sector engagement; traditional, local and indigenous 
peoples’ knowledge; and human rights;  
(f) The stocktake of the Glasgow –Sharm el -Sheikh work programme;  
(g) Changes in mindsets and world views towards transformation in adaptation, 
with the inclusion of i ndigenous peoples’ wisdom, values and knowledge;  
(h) Recent scientific research relevant to the global goal on adaptation;  
(i) The global stocktake;  
 
 6 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.a spx. 
 7 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change . 2022. Climate Change 2022: Impacts, Adaptation, and 
Vulnerability. Contribution of Working Group II to the Sixth Assessment Report of the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change . H Pörtner, D Roberts, M Tignor, et al. (eds.). 
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Available at https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg2/ . FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.1  
 21 21. Invites the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change to consider updating its 1994 
technical guidelines for asses sing climate change impacts and adaptation8 as part of its 
seventh assessment cycle, as appropriate;  
22. Also invites the Adaptation Committee, with the support of the secretariat, the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, as appropriate, and other rele vant constituted 
bodies and experts to continue contributing to the Glasgow –Sharm el -Sheikh work 
programme in 2023, including by sharing their work related to indicators, metrics and targets 
at different levels of governance, and other relevant areas ; 
23. Further i nvites  the subsidiary bodies, at their fifty -eighth sessions (June 2023), to 
consider the outputs under the Glasgow –Sharm el -Sheikh work programme in reviewing 
progress in achieving the global goal on adaptation as part of the first global stocktake;9 
24. Decides  that the elements contained in paragraph 10 above will be taken into 
consideration for reviewing overall progress in achieving the global goal on adaptation in the 
context of the first global stocktake;  
25. Recognizes  the challenges associated with r eviewing overall progress in achieving the 
global goal on adaptation given the challenges involved in assessing progress on adaptation 
at the local, national, regional and international level;  
26. Also recognizes that combining various approaches to reviewing overall progress in 
achieving the global goal on adaptation, including qualitative and quantitative approaches, 
can generate a more holistic picture of adaptation progress and help to balance the strengths 
and weaknesses of the different approaches;  
27. Takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraph 12 above;  
28. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of fina ncial resources.  
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
 
 
 8 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change . 1994. IPCC Technical Guidelines for Assessing Climate 
Change Impacts and Adaptations . T Carter, M Parry, H Harasawa, et al. (eds.). London , United 
Kingdom,  and Tsukuba, Japan: University College London and Center for Global Environmental 
Research National Institute for Environmental Studies.  Available at https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ipcc -
technical -guidelines -for-assessing -climate -change -impacts -and-adaptations -2/.  
 9 As per decision 19/CMA.1, para. 4.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.1  
22  Decision 4/CMA.4  
Sharm el -Sheikh mitigation ambition and implementation 
work programme  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
Recalling  the Paris Agreement,  
Reaffirming  the Paris Agreement temperature goal of holding the increase in the 
global a verage temperature to well below 2 °C above pre -industrial levels and pursuing 
efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5 °C above pre -industrial levels,  
Recalling  decision 1/CMA.3,  
Also recalling  decision 1/CMA.3, paragraph 27, in which it was deci ded to establish 
a work programme for urgently scaling up mitigation ambition and implementation in this 
critical decade in a manner that complements the global stocktake,  
Recognizing  the importance of the best available science for effective climate actio n 
and policymaking,  
Noting  the assessment of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change that the 
impacts of climate change will be much lower at a temperature increase of 1.5 °C compared 
with 2 °C, and the resolve to pursue efforts to limit the temperat ure increase to 1.5 °C,  
Also noting  that this requires immediate, deep and sustained reductions in global 
greenhouse gas emissions,  
Emphasizing  the urgent need for Parties to increase their efforts to collectively reduce 
emissions through accelerated actio n and implementation of domestic mitigation measures 
in accordance with Article 4, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement,  
Recalling  decision 1/CMA.3, paragraph 29, in which Articles 3 and 4, paragraphs 3, 
4, 5 and 11, of the Paris Agreement were recalled and  Parties were requested to revisit and 
strengthen the 2030 targets in their nationally determined contributions as necessary to align 
with the Paris Agreement temperature goal, taking into account different national 
circumstances,  
Noting  the importance of aligning nationally determined contributions with long -term 
low greenhouse gas emission development strategies,  
Recalling  Article 4, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement , which provides that each 
Party shall prepare, communicate and main tain successive nationally determined 
contributions that it intends to achieve, and Parties shall pursue domestic mitigation measures 
with the aim of achieving the objectives of such contributions,  
Also recalling  Article 4, paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreem ent, which provides that 
developed country Parties should continue taking the lead by undertaking economy -wide 
absolute emission reduction targets , and that developing country Parties should continu e 
enhancing their mitigation efforts and are encouraged to  move over time towards economy -
wide emission reduction or limitation targets, in the light of different national circumstances,  
Further recalling  Article 4, paragraph 5, of the Paris Agreement, which provides that 
support shall be provided to developing country Parties for the implementation of Article  4 
of the Paris Agreement , in accordance with Articles 9 –11, recognizing that enhanced support 
for de veloping country Parties will allow for higher ambition in their actions,  
Reaffirming  the nationally determined nature of nationally determined contributions , 
1. Confirms  that the objective of the work programme for urgently scaling up mitigation 
ambition and implementation referred to in paragraph 27 of decision 1/CMA.3 shall be to FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.1  
 23 urgently scale up mitigation ambition and implementation in this critical decade  in a manner 
that complements the global stocktake;  
2. Decides that the work programme shall be operationalized through focused exchanges 
of views, information and ideas , noting that the o utcomes of the work programme will be 
non-prescriptive, non -punitive, facilitative, respectful of national sovereignty and national 
circumstances, take into account the nationally determined nature of nationally determined 
contributions and will not impose  new targets or goals;  
3. Also decides that the work programme shall function in a manner that is consistent 
with the procedures and timelines for communication of successive nationally determined 
contributions established in the Paris Agreement, recalling it s Article 4, paragraph 11 , and 
decision 1/CMA.3 ; 
4. Further decides  that the scope of the work programme should be based on broad 
thematic areas relevant to urgently scaling up mitigation ambition and implementation in this 
critical decade and include all sec tors covered in the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National 
Greenhouse Gas Inventories  of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, thematic 
areas in the contribution of Working Group III to the Sixth Assessment Report of the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Clim ate Change,1 and relevant enabling conditions, 
technologies,  just transitions and cross -cutting issues;  
5. Decides  that implementation of the work programme will start immediately after the 
fourth session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Paris Agreement and continue until its eighth session (2026) with a view to adopting a 
decision on the continuation of the work programme at that session;  
6. Also decides  that the work programme will be carried out under the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement;  
7. Requests  the Chairs of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice 
and the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to appoint, well in advance of the fifty -eighth 
sessions of the subsidiary bodies (June 2023) and every two years thereafter, in consultation 
with respective constituencies, two co -chairs for the work programme, one f rom a developed 
country Party and one from a developing country Party;  
8. Decides  that at least two global dialogues shall be held each year as part of the work 
programme, with one to be held prior to the first regular sessions of the subsidiary bodies, 
starting at their fifty -eighth sessions, and one prior to the second regular sessions of the 
subsidiary bodies, starting at their fifty -ninth sessions (November –December 2023), and that 
such dialogues should be conducted in hybrid format to allow both in -person  and virtual 
participation;  
9. Also decides  that other in -person or hybrid dialogues may be held each year in 
conjunction with existing events, such as the regional climate weeks, at the discretion of the 
co-chairs of the work programme with a view to ensurin g inclusive and balanced 
geographical representation at the dialogues;  
10. Requests  the secretariat to organize, under the guidance of the co -chairs of the work 
programme, the dialogues referred to in paragraphs 8 –9 above in such a manner as to 
facilitate a fo cused exchange of views, information and ideas, as well as the active 
participation of  and interaction between Parties and relevant non -Party stakeholders, while 
encouraging the high -level champions to support the effective participation of non -Party 
stake holders, and reflect the objective and the scope of the work programme referred to in 
paragraphs 1 and 4 above respectively;  
11. Also requests  the secretariat to organize, under the guidance of the co -chairs  of the 
work programme and with the support of the hi gh-level champions, on the margins of the 
dialogues referred to in paragraphs 8–9 above , investment -focused events, considering the 
 
 1 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. 2022. Climate Change 2022: Mitigation of Climate 
Change. Contribution of Working Group III to the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change . P Shuk la, J Skea, R Slade, et al. (eds.). Cambridge and New York: 
Cambridge University Press. Available at https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg3/ .  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.1  
24  cost of mitigation implementation, with a view to unlocking finance, including for just 
transitions, overcoming barriers to access to finance and identifying investment opportunities 
and actionable solutions informed by nationally determined contributions to help public and 
private financers, investors and international climate finance providers direct finance flows 
towards sup porting areas of opportunity to enhance mitigation in this critical decade;  
12. Invites  Parties, observers and other non -Party stakeholders to submit via the 
submission portal2 by 1 February 2023 and every year thereafter suggested topics in line with 
the sco pe of the work programme referred to in paragraph 4 above to be discussed under the 
dialogues;  
13. Decides  that the co -chairs of the work programme, considering the submissions 
referred to in paragraph 12 above, will decide on and communicate by 1 March 2023 and 
every year thereafter the topics to be discussed at each dialogue in that year;  
14. Invites  Parties, observers and other non -Party stakeholders to submit their views on 
opportunities, best practices , actionable solutions, challenges and barriers relev ant to the 
topics of the dialogues referred to in paragraph 13 above via the submission portal four weeks 
before each dialogue;  
15. Requests  the secretariat to prepare, under the guidance of the co -chairs of the work 
programme, a report on each of the dialogue s referred to in paragraphs 8 –9 above, reflecting 
in a comprehensive and balanced manner the discussions held and including a summary, key 
findings, opportunities and barriers relevant to the topic, and to prepare an annual report 
comprising a compilation of the individual dialogue reports for consideration by the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement, the 
Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice and the Subsidiary Body for 
Implementation;  
16. Also requests  the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice and the 
Subsidiary Body for Implementation , taking into account the annual report referred to in 
paragraph 15 above, to consider progress, including key findings, opportunities and barri ers, 
in implementing the work programme with a view to recommending a draft decision for 
consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Paris Agreement at each of its sessions;  
17. Invites  the co -chairs  of the work programme to make a presentation on the annual 
report referred to in paragraph 15 above at the annual high -level ministerial round table on 
pre-2030 ambition,  starting at the second round table (2023);  
18. Notes  that the annual reports referred  to in paragraph 15 above will be made available 
for the global stocktake consistently with the modalities set out in decision 19/CMA.1;  
19. Encourages  Parties to make available sufficient resources for the successful and 
timely implementation of the work program me; 
20. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 8 –11 and 15 above;  
21. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
 
 
 2 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx . FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.1  
 25 Decision 5/CMA.4  
New collective quantified goal on climate finance  
The Conference of the Parties serving  as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
Recalling decisions 1/CP.21, paragraph 53, 14/CMA.1 and 9/CMA.3,  
1. Re-emphasizes that its deliberations on setting the new collective quantified goal on 
climate finance will conclude in 2024;1 
2. Notes wi th appreciation  the work undertaken under and the work of the co -chairs of 
the ad hoc work programme on the new collective quantified goal on climate finance in 2022, 
takes note  of the annual report on the ad hoc work programme by the co -chairs,2 includin g 
the summaries and key findings of the technical expert dialogues  held in 2022, and 
encourages  Parties and all stakeholders to continue to work in a constructive and inclusive 
manner in 2023 –2024;  
3. Welcomes  the submissions in response to decision 9/CMA.3,  paragraph 17,3 and takes 
note of the technical paper prepared by the secretariat4 on the basis of those submissions as 
input to future deliberations;  
4. Notes with appreciation the deliberations at the 2022 high -level ministerial dialogue 
on the new collec tive quantified goal on climate finance and takes note of the summary of 
those deliberations prepared by the President of the fourth session of the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties  to the Paris Agreement, including the 
recomm endations therein;5 
5. Expresses  its appreciation  to the Governments of Germany, Italy, Norway, 
Switzerland and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, as well as to 
Bloomberg Philanthropies, for their financial contributions to support the  work under the 
ad hoc work programme on the new collective quantified goal on climate finance;  
6. Expresses its gratitude to the Governments of the Philippines and South Africa and to 
the Asian Development Bank for their support in convening the first and th ird technical 
expert dialogues respectively held in 2022 under the ad hoc work programme;  
7. Reiterates that the new collective quantified goal aims at contributing to accelerating 
the achievement of Article 2 of the Paris Agreement of holding the increase in  the global 
average temperature to well below 2 °C above pre -industrial levels and pursuing efforts to 
limit the temperature increase to 1.5 °C above pre -industrial levels, recognizing that this 
would significantly reduce the risks and impacts of climate c hange; increasing the ability to 
adapt to the adverse impacts of climate change and foster climate resilience and low 
greenhouse gas emission development in a manner that does not threaten food production; 
and making finance flows consistent with a pathway  towards low greenhouse gas emission 
and climate -resilient development;  
8. Acknowledges  the need to significantly strengthen the ad hoc work programme on the 
new collective quantified goal on climate finance in the light of the urgency of scaling up 
climate a ction  with a view to achieving meaningful outcomes from the deliberations on all 
elements and setting the new collective quantified goal in 2024 taking into account the needs 
and priorities of developing countries;  
 
 1 Decision 9/CMA.3, para. 22.  
 2 FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/5 and Add.1.  
 3 Available at https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx  (select “CMA 4” as 
the session and search for “collective”) .  
 4 FCCC/TP/2022/2.  
 5 FCCC/ PA/CMA/2022/INF.1 . FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.1  
26  9. Also acknowledges the need for substantiv e progress in the deliberations on the new 
collective quantified goal on climate finance, which will be in line with decision 14/CMA.1 
and take into account the needs and priorities of developing countries and include , inter alia , 
quantity, quality, scope and access features, as well as sources of funding, of the goal and 
transparency arrangements to track progress towards achievement of the goal, without 
prejudice to other elements that will also be considered as the deliberations  evolve, including 
matters relating to time frame;  
10. Further acknowledges  that deliberations on the new collective quantified goal on 
climate finance should build on lessons learned from the goal of developed countries of 
mobilizing jointly USD 100 billion p er year by 2020 in the context of meaningful mitigation 
actions and transparency on implementation and taking into account the needs and priorities 
of developing countries;  
11. Requests  the co -chairs of the ad hoc work programme on the new collective quantifie d 
goal on climate finance, with a view to significantly advancing substantive progress in 
2023,  to: 
(a) Develop and publish by March 2023 a workplan for 2023, including themes 
for the technical expert dialogues to be held in that year, in accordance with parag raph 9 
above and taking into account the submissions referred to in paragraph 12 below;  
(b) Invite Parties, constituted bodies under the Convention and the Paris 
Agreement, the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism, climate finance institutions, 
obser vers and observer organizations , and other stakeholders , particularly from the private 
sector , to submit inputs via the submission portal6 on each technical expert dialogue to be 
held, on the basis of guiding questions well in advance of each technical ex pert dialogue to 
allow for those inputs to be reflected in the organization of the dialogues;  
(c) Facilitate, in line with decision 9/CMA.3, paragraphs 1, 5 and 8, broader 
participation of ministries of finance, non -State actors, multilateral development banks , the 
private sector, civil society, youth, academia and external technical experts in the technical 
expert dialogues, including through alternative means of engagement, recognizing the value 
that technical experts have contributed so far to the ad hoc wor k programme;  
(d) Ensure that the timing of the technical expert dialogues allows for the wide 
participation of all relevant stakeholders, including relevant experts;  
(e) Organize the technical expert dialogues in an open, transparent and inclusive 
manner;  
(f) Provide information on the discussions held and present information on the 
way forward, including possible options, following each technical expert dialogue and in 
their annual report on the ad hoc work programme with a view to achieving the objective of 
setting the new collective quantified goal on climate finance in accordance with decision 
14/CMA.1 and informing the deliberations thereon at the fifth session of the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement (No vember –
December 2023) and at the high -level ministerial dialogue on the new collective quantified 
goal on climate finance in 2023;  
12. Invites Parties to submit views on the issues to be addressed as part of the workplan 
referred to in paragraph 11(a) above vi a the submission portal by 28 February 2023;  
13. Requests  the secretariat to prepare a compilation and synthesis of the submissions 
referred to in paragraph 11(b) above as input to the technical expert dialogues to be held in 
2023;  
14. Also requests  the secretari at, in organizing the technical expert dialogues in 2023, to 
facilitate inclusive participation of all Parties, in particular developing country Parties, and 
balanced geographical representation;  
15. Invites the President of the fifth session of the Conference  of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement to organize the 2023 high -level ministerial 
 
 6 Available at https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx .  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.1  
 27 dialogue on the new collective quantified goal on climate finance, taking into consideration 
the information provided by the co -chairs of the ad hoc work programme in line with 
paragraph 11(f) above, with a view to facilitating interactive discussions, substantively 
advancing shared understanding of the goal and providing guidance for work in 2024;  
16. Decides  to continue its deliberations on  setting a new collective quantified goal on 
climate finance at its fifth and sixth (November 2024) sessions, taking stock of the progress 
made and providing further guidance on the ad hoc work programme, taking into 
consideration the annual reports by the  co-chairs of the ad hoc work programme, including 
the key findings contained therein, and the summary reports, including the recommendations 
therein, on the high -level ministerial dialogues;  
17. Takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activi ties to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 11  and 13–15 above;  
18. Requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
10th plenary meeting  
20 Novemb er 2022  
      
 
GE.23 -04726(E)  
Conference of the Parties  serving as the meeting  
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
Report of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement on its fourth 
session, held in Sharm el -Sheikh  from 6 to 20 November 2022  
Addendum  
Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its fourth session  
Contents  
Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
 Decision  Page 
  6/CMA.4  Matters relating to cooperative approaches referred to in Article 6, paragraph 2,  
of the Paris Agreement  ................................ ................................ ..............................   2 
  7/CMA.4  Guidance on the mechanism established by Article 6, paragraph 4, of the  
Paris Agreement  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........   33 
  8/CMA.4  Matters relating to the work programme under the framework for non -market  
approaches referred to in Article 6, paragraph 8, of the Paris Agreement  .................   55 
  9/CMA.4  Revie ws on a voluntary basis of the information reported pursuant to  
decision 18/CMA.1, annex, chapter IV, and respective training courses needed  ......  59 
  10/CMA.4  Report of the Adaptation Committee for 2022 and review of the progre ss,  
effectiveness and performance of the Adaptation Committee  ................................ ...  61 
  11/CMA.4  Matters relating to the least developed countries  ................................ .......................   62 
  
United Nations  FCCC /PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
 
 
 
  
Distr.: General  
17 March  2023 
 
Original: English  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add. 2 
2  Decision 6/CMA.4  
Matters relating to cooperative approaches referred to in 
Article 6, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
Recalling  Article1 6, paragraph 1, Parties recognize that some Parties choose to pursue 
voluntary cooperation in the implementation  of Parties’ nationally determined contributions 
to allow for higher ambition in their mitigation and adaptation actions and to promote 
sustainable development and environmental integrity,  
Also recalling decision 2/CMA.3 and  its annex,  
Further recalling  decision 1/CP.24, paragraph 43(a), according to which Parties may 
submit their national communication and biennial transparency report as a single report in 
accordance with the modalities, procedures and guidelines  for the transparency framework 
for action  and support referred to in Article 13 ,2 
1. Adopts : 
(a) The guidance relating to decision 2/CMA.3, annex, chapter VI.A (Tracking), 
as contained in annex I;  
(b) The guidelines for the Article 6 technical expert review referred  to in decision 
2/CMA.3, annex, chapter V  (Review), as contained in annex II;  
(c) The outline of the Article 6 technical expert review report referred to in 
decision 2/CMA.3, annex, chapter V (Review), paragraph 27, as contained in annex III;  
(d) The training programme for technical experts participating  in the Article 6 
technical expert review referred to in decision 2/CMA.3, annex, chapter V (Review), as 
contained in annex IV;  
(e) The outline of the initial report (hereinafter referred to as initial report) and 
updated initial report referred to in decision  2/CMA.3, annex, chapter IV .A (Initial report ), 
as contained in annex V;  
(f) The outline of annex 4 (Information in relation to the Party’s participation in 
cooperative approaches, as applicable) to the biennial transparency report referred to in 
decision 2/CM A.3, annex, chapter IV.C (Regular information), as contained in annex VI;  
2. Encourages  Parties to test the draft version of the agreed electronic format  referred to 
in decision 2/CMA.3, annex, chapter IV.B (Annual information) , as contained in annex VII 
and to provide feedback via the submission portal3 by 30 April 2023;  
3. Requests  the secretariat to organize a hybrid workshop on the draft version of the 
agreed electronic format referred to in paragraph 2 above at least one month prior to the 
fifty-eighth session of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice (June 
2023);  
4. Also requests  the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice to 
continue its work on the draft version of the  agreed  electronic format referred to in 
paragraph  2 above, taking into consideration the submissions from Parties on this matt er also 
referred to in that paragraph and the workshop referred to in paragraph 3 above, with a view 
to finalizing a recommendation on the agreed electronic format for consideration and 
adoption by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of th e Parties to the Paris 
Agreement at its fifth session (November –December 2023);  
 
 1 “Article” in this decision and its annexes refers to an article of the Paris Agreement.  
 2 Decision 18/CMA.1, ann ex. 
 3 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx . FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
 3 5. Clarifies  that the vintage of an internationally transferred mitigation outcome is the 
calendar year in which the underlying mitigation occurred;  
6. Decides  that a participating Party that identifies information as confidential, pursuant 
to decision 2/CMA.3, annex, pa ragraph 24, should provide the basis for protecting such 
information;  
7. Also decides that Article 6 technical expert review teams will follow the Article 6 
technical expert review report outline contained in annex III;  
8. Invites Parties and, as appropriate, in tergovernmental organizations to nominate 
technical experts  with the relevant qualifications to the UNFCCC roster of experts in 
accordance with annex II, chapter XI;  
9. Requests  the secretariat to implement and maintain the training programme for 
technical ex perts participating in Article 6 technical expert reviews pursuant to decision 
2/CMA.3, annex, paragraph 26, taking into account technical advice from Article 6 lead 
reviewers on the implementation of the training for technical experts participating in Art icle 6 
technical expert reviews pursuant to annex II, chapter XI.C;  
10. Also requests  the secretariat to report to the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and 
Technological Advice at its fifty -eighth session on progress in developing the training 
programme referred  to paragraph 1(d) above and at each subsequent session until 
development of the training programme has been completed;  
11. Further  requests  the secretariat to make available as soon as possible an initial version 
of the courses comprising the training program me, as outlined in annex IV, and to make 
available no later than December 2023 the course related to the requirements of initial reports 
set out in decision 2/CMA.3, annex, paragraph 18;  
12. Requests  the secretariat to promote geographical and gender balance a mong the 
technical experts participating in the training programme referred to in paragraph 1(d) above, 
to the extent possible, giving special consideration, including in terms of support for 
participation, to experts from developing countries, particularl y the least developed countries 
and small island developing States;  
13. Also requests the secretariat to include any cases of persistent inconsistencies and/or 
non-responsiveness by a participating Party, as contained in the recommendations arising 
from  the Ar ticle 6 technical expert review, including responses, if any, to such 
recommendations that may be provided by the participating Party concerned , in the annual 
compilation and synthesis of the results of the Article 6 technical expert review referred to in 
decision 2/CMA.3, paragraph 13, and publish the information on the centralized accounting 
and reporting platform in a disaggregated manner in respect of each participating Party ; 
14. Invites  the Committee referred to in Article 15, paragraph 2, to liaise with the Article 
6 lead reviewers referred to in annex II, chapter XI.C, as needed, when cases of significant 
and persistent inconsistencies are identified and addressed by the Committee in accordance 
with decision 20/CMA.1, annex, paragraph 22(b);  
15. Also i nvites Parties to submit views on options for the recommendations referred to in 
paragraphs 16–17 below  via the submission portal for consideration by the Subsidiary Body 
for Scientific and Technological Advice prior to its:  
(a) Fifty -eighth session,  in relati on to paragraphs 16(a) and 17  below;  
(b) Sixtieth session (June 2024), in relation to paragraph 16(b) below;  
16. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice to continue its 
work to develop, on the basis of the guidance in the annex to dec ision 2/CMA.3 and the 
further guidance in the annexes to this decision, taking into account the submissions referred 
to in paragraph 15 above:  
(a) Recommendations for consideration and adoption by the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Par ties to the Paris Agreement at its fifth session on:  
(i) Further consideration of the special circumstances of the least developed 
countries and small island developing States;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add. 2 
4  (ii) The modalities for reviewing information that is confidential;  
(iii) The reviews specifyi ng recommended action to be taken when inconsistencies 
are identified, and provisions on how a Party should respond to those 
recommendations and the implications of non -responsiveness, if any;  
(b) Recommendations for consideration and adoption by the Conferenc e of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its sixth session 
(November 2024) on:  
(i) The elaboration of further guidance in relation to corresponding adjustments 
for multi -year and single -year nationally determined contrib utions, in a manner that 
ensures the avoidance of double counting, on:  
a. Methods for establishing an indicative trajectory, trajectories or budget 
and for averaging, including with respect to relevant indicators, and for 
calculating cumulative emissions by s ources and removals by sinks;  
b. Methods for demonstrating the representativeness of averaging for 
corresponding adjustments by quantifying how much the yearly transaction 
volume differs from the average for the period;  
(ii) Consideration of whether internationall y transferred mitigation outcomes 
could include emission avoidance;  
17. Also requests  the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice, on the 
basis of the guidance in the annex to decision 2/CMA.3 and the further guidance in the 
annexes to this dec ision, to develop recommendations, taking into account Party submissions 
referred to in paragraph 15 above and giving consideration to implementation priorities, for 
consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Paris Agreement at its fifth session, on:  
(a) The sequencing and timing of the submission of the initial report, the 
completion of the Article 6 technical expert review of that report and the submission of the 
agreed electronic format;  
(b) The process of authorization pursuant to decision 2/CMA.3, annex, 
paragraphs  2, 18(g) and 21(c), notably the scope of changes to authorization of 
internationally transferred mitigation outcomes towards use(s), and the process for managing 
them and for authoriz ation of entities and cooperative approaches with a view to ensuring 
transparency and consistency;  
(c) The application of decision 2/CMA.3, annex, paragraph 2, on mitigation 
outcomes authorized by a participating Party for use towards achievement of a national ly 
determined contribution and for other international mitigation purposes in accordance with 
decision 2/CMA.3, annex, paragraph 1(d) and (f);  
(d) Tables for submitting annual information as part of the regular information, as 
referred to in decision 2/CMA.3, annex, paragraph 23(j);  
(e) Consideration of possible implications for the reporting of annual information 
pursuant to decision 2/CMA.3, annex, paragraphs 20 and 23, from the application of methods 
for converting the non -greenhouse gas metric into tonnes of ca rbon dioxide equivalent in 
accordance with decision 2/CMA.3, annex, paragraph 22(d), with a view to ensuring that the 
amount of internationally transferred mitigation outcomes in a non -greenhouse gas metric 
acquired by a participating Party does not exceed  the amount of internationally transferred 
mitigation outcomes in the non -greenhouse gas metric of the participating Party initiating the 
transfer;  
(f) The process of identifying, notifying and correcting inconsistencies in data on 
internationally transferred mitigation outcomes in the Article 6 database, in accordance with 
decision 2/CMA.3, annex, paragraph 33, and its dependence on the agreed electronic format;  
(g) The need for additional functionalities and procedures for the international 
registry to allow for transfer of Article 6, paragraph 4, emission reductions to the international 
registry and to provide services for cooperative approaches if voluntarily requested by Parties FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
 5 participating in a cooperative approach, including, inter alia, additional technica l 
functionalities and administrative arrangements, for authorizing account access, and further 
guidance on procedures for reporting and review for the cooperative approaches of the 
participating Parties requesting such services, which may be required in ad dition to the 
relevant guidance in decision 2/CMA.3 and annex I to this decision;  
(h) The accounts of the international registry and the role of the international 
registry administrator, in accordance with the guidance contained in annex I;  
(i) The submission of i nformation by Parties using the international registry as the 
basis for tracking internationally transferred mitigation outcomes;  
(j) The common nomenclature s referred to in annex I, chapter II.B, including for 
cooperative approaches reported by participating Parties, first transferring Party, sectors, 
activity types, non -greenhouse gas metrics and their units of measurement, registries that 
track internationally transferred mitigation outcome from cooperative approaches and action 
types; first transfer specifi cations; and purposes towards which use of internationally 
transferred mitigation outcomes  is authorized;  
18. Further requests  the secretariat to organize a workshop before 30 April 2023, with 
broad participation, to enable the participatory sharing of views o n potential challenges 
participating Parties may face in addressing different elements of the initial report and to 
support the identification of related capacity -building needs;  
19. Invites  Parties to submit their views on potential challenges in the preparat ion of the 
reporting on elements listed in the initial report via the submission portal;  
20. Requests  the secretariat to prepare a technical paper on the basis of issues identified 
at the workshop referred to in paragraph 18 above and Party submissions referre d to in 
paragraph 19 above on potential considerations in the preparation of the reporting on 
elements listed in the initial report;  
21. Invites  the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice to reflect, at its 
fifty-eighth session, on the outcome s of the workshop referred to in paragraph 18 above and 
technical paper referred to in paragraph 20 above and, where appropriate, make 
recommendations to inform the preparation of the manual referred to in paragraph 22 below 
to support the submission of in itial reports by participating Parties;  
22. Requests  the secretariat to develop and regularly update a manual containing 
illustrative elements of information4 for the initial report, updated initial report and annex 4 
to the biennial transparency report (Regu lar information) to facilitate Parties’ understanding 
of how to report information pertaining to decision 2/CMA.3, annex, paragraphs 18 –22, 
taking into account the outcomes of the workshop referred to in paragraph 18 above and 
noting that the illustrative elements of information to be included in the manual have no 
formal status, are for voluntary use and shall not be used or referred to in the Article 6 
technical expert review;  
23. Also requests  the secretariat to provide, as part of the capacity -building programme 
referred to in decision 2/CMA.3, paragraph 12, capacity -building, including by holding at 
least one virtual workshop, with the broad participation of Parties and prior to the fifty -eighth 
session of the Subsidiary Body for Scien tific and Technological Advice, on the use of the 
reporting outlines and tables, particularly in relation to the completion and submission of 
initial reports;  
24. Further requests  the secretariat to expedite the implementation of the capacity -
building programm e referred to in decision 2/CMA.3, paragraph 12, within a time frame in 
which elements are prioritized that are more urgent and relevant to enabling Parties to 
participate in cooperative approaches referred to in Article 6, paragraph 2, taking into account  
the work it has already initiated under the capacity -building programme, and to report 
regularly on the status of its implementation to the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and 
 
 4 A suggested list of illustrative elements of information can be found at 
https://unfccc.int/documents/624401 . FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add. 2 
6  Technological Advice and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of  the Parties 
to the Paris Agreement;  
25. Requests the secretariat, as a matter of priority, to develop the centralized accounting 
and reporting platform and the Article 6 database referred to in decision 2/CMA.3, annex, 
paragraphs 32 and 35, on the basis of th e relevant guidance contained in annex I, 
chapters  II–III, and to make available a test version by June 2024 with a view to the first 
version being finalized by June 2025;  
26. Also requests  the secretariat, as part of the implementation of the centralized 
accounting and reporting platform and the Article 6 database, to make the detailed 
requirements of the platform and database available to Parties before the fifty -eighth session 
of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice to allow Parties t o provide 
views thereon via the submission portal  within four weeks of publication of the requirements;  
27. Invites  Parties to submit views on their experience with the test version of the 
centralized accounting and reporting platform and the Article 6 databas e and any inputs on 
improving these systems via the submission portal within eight weeks of the release of the 
test version;  
28. Requests the secretariat to provide an interim solution by January 2023 for the 
submission of information pursuant to decision 2/CM A.3, annex, chapter IV (Reporting), 
until the centralized accounting and reporting platform and the Article 6 database are released 
to enable participating Parties to make submissions, taking into account that the interim 
solution shall enable the publishi ng of non -confidential information pursuant to decision 
2/CMA.3, annex, paragraph 24;  
29. Strongly encourages participating Parties, in preparing tables for the submission of 
information in relation to quantitative information as per decision 2/CMA.3, annex, 
paragraphs 20 and 23, to use the pre -consistency check function of the centralized accounting 
and reporting platform when it is made available , which shall not supersede the performance 
of the consistency check after this information is submitted;  
30. Requests the secretariat to develop and maintain the necessary processes and 
guidelines for the submission and processing of the information referred to in 
paragraph s 1(e–f) and 2 above, including in relation to the consistency check referred to in 
decision 2/CMA .3, annex, paragraph 33(a), and to publish a user manual, including in a user -
friendly online version, for the Article 6 database and any supporting features and 
functionalities of the centralized accounting and reporting platform in line with the timeline  
for its implementation referred to in paragraph 25 above;  
31. Also requests  the secretariat to explore opportunities for streamlining the process of 
making submissions under Articles 6 and 13, including by integrating the submission portal 
of the centralized accounting and reporting platform referred to in annex I, paragraph 30(b), 
with the submission portal for Article 13 reporting with a view to efficiently managing the 
submission of information required under both Articles 6 and 13;  
32. Further r equests  the sec retariat to develop, publish and periodically update, for 
participating Parties opting to apply the guidance referred to in annex I, chapter I.B, standards 
and recommended practices for electronic recording of data and information related to 
internationall y transferred mitigation outcomes, and communication standards for 
interoperability and transactions with internationally transferred mitigation outcomes, 
including record -keeping arrangements, data security protocols, risk management and 
disaster recovery  procedures, and other practices, as necessary, including with inputs from 
the forum referred to in paragraph 34 below, and to publish relevant outputs in a dedicated 
area on the centralized accounting and reporting platform;  
33. Requests the secretariat, pursuant to decision 2/CMA.3, annex, paragraph 30, to:  
(a) Implement the international registry in accordance with the guidance contained 
in annex I, chapter I.C, while prioritizing the requirements as per annex I, chapter I.A –B, and 
make it avail able to participating Parties not later than 2024;  
(b) Provide an interim solution for participating Parties until the international 
registry becomes operational;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
 7 (c) Make available, as part of the implementation, the technical specifications and 
associated cost e stimates for the international  registry to Parties before the fifty -eighth 
session of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice for comment via the 
submission portal  within four weeks of their  publication;  
(d) Develop and implement the necess ary processes and procedures for operating 
the international registry ; 
34. Also r equests the secretariat to establish a voluntary forum of Article 6 registry system 
administrators and technical experts of participating Parties to facilitate cooperation among 
them, including sharing knowledge and experience in the context of implementing and 
operating infrastructure, and to provide input to the further development and implementation 
of infrastructure, as necessary;  
35. Further r equests  the secretariat to establish a n online platform for information 
exchange and to support the forum of Article 6 registry system administrators in identifying 
topics of interest and relevant activities, including for public engagement;  
36. Encourages  participating Parties to prepare their in itial report, updated initial report 
and annex 4 to the biennial transparency report (Regular information) in accordance with the 
outlines contained in annexes V and VI respectively, as referred to in decision 2/CMA.3, 
annex, chapter IV.A (Initial report) and IV.C (Regular information);  
37. Reiterates the principle of avoiding duplication of work and minimizing the burden 
on Parties and the secretariat referred to in annex II, paragraph 1(d), in relation to the Article  6 
technical expert review of cooperative a pproaches;  
38. Requests  the secretariat to prepare a technical paper on  options for funding the 
activities related to the infrastructure and the Article 6 technical expert review under 
Article  6, paragraph 2, for consideration by the subsidiary bodies at their fifty -eighth 
sessions;  
39. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implic ations of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in this decision;  
40. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
8  Annex I * 
Guidance relating to decision 2/CMA.3, annex, chapter VI 
(Recording and t racking)  
I. Guidance relating to the registries referred to in decision 
2/CMA.3, annex, paragraph  29 
A. Form, functions and processes  
1. Each Party participating in a cooperative approach referred to in Article 6, 
paragraph  2, shall have, or have access to, a registry for the purpose of tracking that:  
(a) Has acc ounts for ITMOs, as necessary;  
(b) Records the actions relating to ITMOs, including authorization, first transfer, 
transfer, acquisition, use towards NDCs, authorization for use towards other international 
mitigation purposes  and voluntary cancellation (including for overall mitigation in global 
emissions, if applicable);  
(c) Tracks, maintains records and accounts for ITMOs, including through unique 
identifiers;  
(d) Provides access to the Party and other entities for which access is authorized 
by the Party to implement the actions referred to in paragraph 1(b) above;  
(e) Produces, maintains and compiles records, information and data consistently 
with the annual information submitted in the agreed electronic format.  
2. Electronic arrangements  and other technical and administrative arrangements for 
registries shall be based on software that enables tracking and recording of ITMOs. Such 
registries should be maintained in accordance with administrative procedures and precautions 
to avoid or contr ol risks relating to the consistency of data.  
1. Tracking and recording methods  
3. Each participating Party shall track and record ITMOs from a cooperative approach 
consistently during the NDC implementation period.  
4. ITMOs shall be uniquely identified in a way th at renders ITMOs traceable to the 
mitigation outcome(s) represented.  
5. Each ITMO shall have a unique identifier. The unique identifier for each ITMO shall 
comprise at the minimum:  
(a) The identifier of the cooperative approach;  
(b) The identifier of the originating Party registry;  
(c) The identifier of the first transferring Party;  
(d) The serial number;  
(e) The vintage of the underlying mitigation outcome.  
6. ITMOs can be tracked and reported in blocks.  
2. Actions and records  
7. Each participating Party shall ensure that the registry records information and data on 
authorization, first transfer, transfer, acquisition, use towards NDCs, authorization for use 
 
 * The list of the abbreviations and  acronyms  used in this annex can be found at the end of the decision . FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
 9 towards other international mitigation purpose s and voluntary cancellation  (including for 
overall mitigation in global emissions, if applicable).  
8. Each participating Party shall, in implementing its registry, achieve data integrity in 
tracking and recording ITMOs and enable reporting consistent with the agreed electronic 
format . 
B. Interoperability  
9. Where participating Party registries are interoperable, the Parties participating in a 
cooperative approach shall, for the purpose of transferring ITMOs, implement appropriate 
standards and procedures to mitigate risks to the consistency of data, including through 
communication of data about the transfer and reconciliation procedures within and between 
registries.  
10. Interoperability of registries should be implemented in such a way that neither Party 
to an inter -registry transfer could later  repudiate the existence, type, time or content of the 
transfer.  
C. Guidance relating to the international registry referred to in 
decision  2/CMA.3, annex, paragraph  30 
11. The international registry is a consolidated system comprising each participating 
Party’s registry sections, with each section performing the functions set out in decision 
2/CMA.3, annex, paragraph 29, and chapter I.A –B above.  
12. The international registry shall consist of Party -specific sections and a section for the 
administrator of the interna tional registry.  
13. International registry sections shall be isolated from each other on the user interface 
platform while maintaining the cross -sectional consistency of data.  
14. The secretariat, in implementing the international registry, shall strive to minim ize its 
development and operational costs while ensuring that the international registry meets the 
necessary security and quality expectations.  
1. Accounts and actions  
15. The international registry shall, for the purpose of tracking and recording ITMOs, 
comprise  an electronic database and other technical and administrative arrangements and 
support the accounts and perform the operations set out in paragraph 1 above.  
16. Accounts shall enable the tracking and recording of information in relation to the 
ITMO actions th ey record.  
2. Processes  
(a) Roles of administrators  
17. The secretariat fulfils the role of the administrator of the international registry, 
including developing and maintaining:  
(a) The international registry software;  
(b) Change management procedures, operational level agreements, hosting and 
synchronization of nomenclature with the centralized accounting and reporting platform;  
(c) Procedures for corrective actions to ensure the consistency and correct 
accounting of ITMOs;  
(d) Standards and procedures for interoperability with other registries and 
procedures for implementing interoperability, while ensuring that the costs and burden 
related to such interoperability are minimized.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
10  18. Each participating Party that uses the internationa l registry is responsible for tracking 
the underlying mitigation activities and mitigation outcomes and ensuring avoidance of 
double counting.  
(b) Other  
19. The international registry administrator shall assist the least developed countries and 
small island develo ping States that use the international registry with functions and processes, 
as necessary, subject to the availability of financial resources.  
20. The international registry shall enable, for each participating Party, the automatic pre - 
filling of the agreed electronic format and of other quantitative information requirements 
pursuant to decision 2/CMA.3, annex, chapter IV (Reporting), including in relation to 
authorized Article 6, paragraph 4, emission reductions.  
21. The international registry shall enable the p roduction and dissemination of reports to 
the designated registry administrators of participating Parties on the history of holdings and 
actions in relation to accounts associated with the respective participating Parties.  
22. The international registry shall make non -confidential information publicly available 
and provide a publicly accessible user interface through the web portal of the centralized 
accounting and reporting platform.  
3. Interoperability  
(a) Connection of the mechanism registry to the international re gistry  
23. Pursuant to decision 3/CMA.3, annex, paragraph 63, the mechanism registry is 
connected to the international registry. The connection of the mechanism registry to the 
international registry shall, at a minimum, enable the functions referred to in par agraphs 9 –
10 above and be implemented in accordance with future decisions of the CMA.  
(b) Connection of participating Party registries to the international registry  
24. A participating Party may connect its registry to the international registry. Such 
connections shall apply the interoperability arrangements applicable to all registries as 
described in chapter I.B above and other relevant future decisions of the CMA.  
II. Guidance relating to the centralized accounting and 
reporting platform referred to in decision 2/CM A.3, annex, 
paragraph  26 
A. Form and functions  
25. The centralized accounting and reporting platform referred to in decision 2/CMA.3, 
annex, paragraph 35, supports the review referred to in chapter V (Review) of the same 
decision and provides transparency in rela tion to cooperative approaches by publishing 
information submitted by participating Parties pursuant to chapter IV (Reporting) of the same 
decision.  
26. The centralized accounting and reporting platform shall be implemented as a digital 
web-based platform and shall contain the international registry and the Article 6 database  
referred to in the annex to decision 2/CMA.3  as distinct parts.  
27. The centralized accounting and reporting platform shall house or provide:  
(a) Templates for tables and outlines of the informati on to be reported pursuant to 
decision 2/CMA.3, annex, chapter IV (Reporting);  
(b) A submission portal for participating Parties to submit information pursuant to 
decision 2/CMA.3, annex, chapter IV (Reporting). The submission portal shall have a 
human - and ma chine -readable interface for uploading information, including for recording FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
 11 data in the Article 6 database. The submission portal shall enable automated pre -checks of 
the draft submissions, including on the basis of the information recorded in the Article 6 
database, that provide feedback to the submitting Party about apparent or potential 
inconsistencies prior to submission of information;  
(c) Workflows for processing submissions;  
(d) Safe storage for submitted information;  
(e) An area for each participating Party, accessible after valid authentication, to 
support the preparation of its submissions pursuant to decision 2/CMA.3, annex, chapter IV 
(Reporting) , and to support communications with the secretariat and the Article 6 technical 
expert rev iew teams. The participating Party shall have access to reporting tables and outlines 
of information that are automatically pre -filled with information previously submitted 
through electronic templates;  
(f) An area for Article 6 technical expert review teams, accessible after valid 
authentication, to access information relevant to reviews assigned to them, including 
confidential information, and to support communications with the secretariat and Parties 
undergoing an Article 6 technical expert review. This area  may use information compilers, 
checklists and review tools;  
(g) A public interface.  
B. Common nomenclatures  
28. The centralized accounting and reporting platform shall enable the management of a 
common list of values for specific information attributes required for the reporting of annual 
information in accordance with decision 2/CMA.3, annex, chapter IV (Reporting) 
(hereinafter referred to as common nomenclatures).  
29. Common nomenclatures shall be managed through a process for requesting the 
establishment of and change s to common nomenclatures.  
30. The secretariat or participating Parties may identify the need for and request the 
establishment of further common nomenclatures.  
31. A common nomenclature shall comprise  unique elements (values), which shall be 
assigned by the centr alized accounting and reporting platform. Common nomenclature 
elements shall be robust and immutable. New common nomenclatures or new elements may 
be added to existing nomenclatures and elements. When changes to common nomenclatures 
and their elements are unavoidable, a manual review of the impact on existing operations and 
assessment of possible remediations or mitigations shall be carried out by the secretariat, 
including through consultations with participating Parties, as appropriate.  
III. Guidance relating to the Article 6 database referred to in 
decision 2/CMA.3, annex, paragraph  32 
A. Form and functions  
32. The Article 6 database referred to in decision 2/CMA.3, annex, paragraph 32, records 
and compiles the information submitted by participating Parties pursuant to chapter IV.B  
(Annual information) and IV. C (Regular information)  of the annex to the same decision and 
supports the review referred to in chapter  V (Review) of the annex to the same decision, 
including the recording of corresponding adjustments and emis sions balances and 
information on ITMOs first transferred, transferred, acquired, held, cancelled, cancelled for 
overall mitigation in global emissions, if any, and/or used by participating Parties.  
33. The Article 6 database shall record the unique identifier s for ITMOs contained in the 
registries by receiving the unique identifiers via the agreed electronic format.  Each unique 
identifier shall remain unchanged throughout this process.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
12  34. The Article 6 database shall be implemented as an integrated but distinct d atabase 
within the centralized accounting and reporting platform, and an Article 6 database data 
model shall be designed on the basis of the agreed electronic format for submission of annual 
information to the Article 6 database.1 
35. The Article 6 database shall enable the compilation of annual information submitted 
by a participating Party for inclusion in the format for the structured summary, required 
pursuant to decision 18/CMA.1, annex, paragraph 77(d), as part of the biennial transparency 
report. 
36. The publishing of non -confidential information stored in the Article 6 database, 
including in relation to the results of the consistency check, as per decision 2/CMA.3, annex, 
paragraph 33(a), shall be done through the public interface of the centraliz ed accounting and 
reporting platform.  
B. Consistency check procedure  
37. Pursuant to decision 2/CMA.3, annex, paragraph 32(b), the Article 6 database shall 
automate the identification of inconsistencies in submitted annual information and notify the 
participating  Party or participating Parties, as applicable, of such inconsistencies.  
38. The Article 6 database shall automate the consistency check as per decision 2/CMA.3, 
annex, paragraph 33(a).  
39. The Article 6 database shall identify inconsistencies and unavailability o f annual 
information by performing consistency checks on the accuracy and completeness of the 
information in accordance with the relevant requirements of decision 2/CMA.3, annex, 
chapter IV.B  (Annual information) and IV. C (Regular information ). The consist ency checks 
shall extend to the reported information of all Parties participating in a cooperative approach 
in respect of that cooperative approach, including by comparing amounts first transferred or 
transferred and acquired between participating Parties.  
40. The Article 6 database, through the submission portal of the centralized accounting 
and reporting platform, shall make available to participating Parties a pre -submission 
consistency check option for draft annual information for voluntary use by Parties.
 
 1  As per decision 2/CMA.3, annex, chap . IV (Reporting) . FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
 13 Annex II * 
  Guidelines for the Article 6 technical expert review referred 
to in decision 2/CMA.3, annex, chapter V (Review)  
I. Guiding principles  
1. The guiding principles of the guidelines for the Article 6 technical expert review 
pursuant to decision 2/CMA.3, annex, chapter V (Review) , are as follows:  
(a) Promote transparency, accuracy, completeness, consisten cy and 
comparability;  
(b) Facilitate the application of robust accounting for engagement in the 
cooperative approaches referred to in Article 6, paragraph 2;  
(c) Acknowledge the importance of facilitating improved reporting and 
transparency over time;  
(d) Avoid dupli cation of work and minimize the burden on Parties and the 
secretariat, including by leveraging capabilities available through the centralized accounting 
and reporting platform in preparing for and carrying out reviews.  
II. Scope  
2. An Article 6 technical expert review consists of:   
(a) A review of the consistency of the information, including on each cooperative 
approach, submitted by the participating Party in its initial report with the requirements of 
decision 2/CMA.3, annex, paragraph 18;  
(b) A revie w of the consistency of the information for each further cooperative 
approach submitted by the participating Party in an updated initial report with the 
requirements of decision 2/CMA.3, annex, paragraph 18(g –i); 
(c) A review of the consistency of the informat ion in relation to its participation 
in cooperative approaches submitted by the participating Party in its regular information as 
an annex1 to the biennial transparency report with the requirements of decision 2/CMA.3, 
annex, paragraphs 21 –23; 
(d) A consideration of the results of the consistency check referred to in decision 
2/CMA.3, annex, paragraph 33(a), performed by the secretariat on the in formation submitted 
by the participating Party for recording in the Article 6 database referred to in the annex to 
decision 2/CMA.3 with respect to the requirements set out in decision 2/CMA.3, annex, 
chapter IV (Reporting), including across participating Parties for each cooperative approach 
in which the Party under review participates.  
3. Information submitted by a participating Party is considered to be consistent with 
these guidelines when all of the following requirements are met:  
(a) The information is compl ete, transparent and consistent with the annex to 
decision 2/CMA.3 and any future relevant decisions of the CMA;  
(b) The information is consistent across the different reporting requirements, 
namely the initial report, updated initial report, and annual inform ation and regular 
information annexes to the biennial transparency report, as well as the structured summary 
 
 * The list of the abbreviations and  acronyms  used in this annex can be found at the end of the decision . 
 1  Annex 4 (Information in relation to the Party’s participation in cooperative approaches , as applicable ) 
to the biennial transparen cy reports, referred to in annex IV to decision 5/CMA.3.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
14  (required pursuant to decision 18/CMA.1, annex, para. 77(d), as part of the biennial 
transparency report) in which annual information is included, to the extent possible;  
(c) The information is consistent across all Parties participating in the same 
cooperative approach, as relevant and to the extent possible.  
4. The Party under review shall indicate in its submission if information from other 
participatin g Parties in the same cooperative approach(es) is unavailable, to the extent 
possible.  
5. An Article 6 technical expert review shall specify recommended actions to be taken 
by the participating Party, including recommendations on:  
(a) How to improve consistency w ith the requirements of the annex to decision 
2/CMA.3 and any future relevant decisions of the CMA;  
(b) How to address identified inconsistencies in quantified information that is 
reported under chapter IV.B  (Annual information) and IV. C (Regular information ) of the 
annex to decision 2/CMA.3 and/or identified by the secretariat as part of the consistency 
check.  
6. An Article 6 technical expert review team shall also consider any recommendations 
on inconsistency and areas for improvement identified in previous Art icle 6 technical expert 
review reports for the participating Party, if any, and reiterate those recommendations in 
cases of non -responsiveness of the participating Party in its latest submission.  
7. An Article 6 technical expert review team may identify capac ity-building needs and 
areas for improvement in consultation with the participating Party.  
8. The Article 6 technical expert review team shall pay particular attention to the 
respective national capabilities and circumstances of participating developing coun try Parties 
and recognize the special circumstances of the least developed countries and small island 
developing States.  
9. The Article 6 technical expert review shall be implemented in a facilitative, non -
intrusive, non -punitive manner, respectful of nation al sovereignty and avoid placing undue 
burden on participating Parties.  
10. The Article 6 technical expert review teams shall not:  
(a) Make political judgments;  
(b) Review the adequacy or appropriateness of a Party’s NDC under Article 4;  
(c) Review the adequacy or approp riateness of:  
(i) A cooperative approach in which a Party is participating and associated 
descriptions;  
(ii) The activities under the cooperative approach;  
(iii) The authorization of a cooperative approach or ITMOs from a cooperative 
approach towards use(s).  
III. Information to be reviewed  
11. Information submitted by a Party participating in a cooperative approach under 
Article  6, paragraph 2, shall undergo an Article 6 technical expert review consistently with 
these guidelines. The reviews encompass:  
(a) The initial repo rt and updated initial report, as referred to in paragraph 2(a –b) 
above, submitted by each participating Party;  
(b) Regular information, as an annex to a biennial transparency report, as referred 
to in paragraph 2(c) above, submitted by each participating Part y. 
(c) The information referred to in paragraph 2(d) above.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
 15 IV. Timing and sequencing of review  
12. The initial reports and updated initial reports submitted during a three -month calendar 
period or a six -month calendar period shall undergo an Article 6 technical exper t review 
following the calendar period in which they were submitted. Where an initial report or 
updated initial report for a Party is submitted at the same time as the Party’s regular 
information, the initial report or updated initial report and regular in formation may be 
reviewed together in a single Article 6 technical expert review.  
V. Article 6 technical expert review format  
A. Definitions  
13. An Article 6 technical expert review shall be conducted as a centralized review or 
desk review.  
14. A centralized review is when the members of an Article 6 technical expert review 
team conduct the review from a single, centralized location; this review includes the 
possibility for remote participation for technical experts who need it in the light of their 
circumstances.  
15. Durin g a centralized review, a single Article 6 technical expert review team may 
review several participating Parties, including those participating in the same cooperative 
approach(es), to the extent possible.  
16. A desk review is when the members of an Article 6 technical expert review team 
conduct the review remotely from their respective countries.  
B. Applicability  
17. A centralized review shall be conducted:  
(a) For the regular information annex to the first biennial transparency report or to 
the biennial transparency r eport that contains information on a Party’s achievement of its 
NDC under Article 4;  
(b) Whenever Parties participating in the same cooperative approach (es) are 
reviewed simultaneously.  
18. A centralized or desk review shall be conducted in all cases other than th ose specified 
in paragraph 17 above, as appropriate.  
19. The review format for information submitted with a biennial transparency report 
should align with the format of the technical expert review referred to in decision 18/CMA.1, 
annex, chapter VII, whenever possible.  
20. The least developed countries and small island developing States may choose to 
participate in the same centralized review as a group, to the extent possible.  
VI. Procedures  
21. For centralized and desk reviews:  
(a) The secretariat shall commence th e preparation of the review process 
immediately following the submission of information specified in chapter II above and agree 
with the participating Party the dates of the Article 6 technical expert review week at least 
eight weeks prior to that week;2 
 
 2 Review weeks are to be organized by the secretariat at regular  intervals each year . FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
16  (b) The secretariat shall make every effort to schedule a simultaneous centralized 
review for Parties participating in the same cooperative approach(es);  
(c) The secretariat shall compose a technical expert review team at least six weeks 
prior to the Article 6 tec hnical expert review week;  
(d) The Article 6 technical expert review team shall conduct a thorough and 
comprehensive assessment of the submitted information;  
(e) The Article 6 technical expert review team should communicate any 
preliminary questions and the secret ariat should provide the results of the completeness check 
referred to in paragraph 29 below to the participating Party at least four weeks prior to the 
Article 6 technical expert review week. The participating Party under review should make 
every reasonab le effort to provide the requested information and comments on the 
completeness check the week prior to the Article 6 technical expert review week. The 
Article  6 technical expert review team may request additional information from the 
participating Party b efore or during the Article 6 technical expert review week, ensuring that 
any additional information requested from the participating Party is relevant to the reporting 
requirement in decision 2/CMA.3;  
(f) The Article 6 technical expert review team shall, unde r its collective 
responsibility, prepare a draft technical expert review report including recommendations and 
through the secretariat send it to the participating Party under review during the Article 6 
review week. The secretariat shall organize a telecon ference with the participating Party and 
the Article 6 expert review team to consider draft recommendations before the end of the 
review week. The participating Party concerned shall be given up to two weeks from the 
receipt of the draft review report to p rovide comments;  
(g) The Article 6 technical expert review team shall prepare the final version of 
the Article 6 technical expert review report, taking into account the comments of the 
participating Party, within two weeks of receipt of the comments from the participating Party, 
and forward the final version of the Article 6 technical expert review report through the 
secretariat for consideration during the technical expert review referred to in decision 
18/CMA.1, annex, chapter VII;  
(h) The final version of the A rticle 6 technical expert review report shall be made 
publicly available on the centralized accounting and reporting platform. Taking into account 
the procedures in this paragraph, the Article 6 technical expert review team shall make every 
effort to compl ete the Article 6 technical expert review report as early as possible. The Article 
6 technical expert review report shall be published no later than the start of the technical 
expert review week referred to in decision 18/CMA.1, annex, chapter VII, for the  Party under 
review in order to be considered;  
(i) The Article 6 technical expert review report o n the initial report shall be 
completed in advance of the completion of the review of any other information submitted by 
the Party under review.  
VII. Confidentiality  
22. The participating Party may designate information provided to the Article 6 technical 
expert review team during the review as confidential. In such cases, the participating Party 
should provide the basis for protecting the confidentiality of such information , and the Article 
6 technical expert review team and the secretariat shall not make the information publicly 
available on the centralized accounting and reporting platform, in accordance with decision 
2/CMA.3, annex, paragraph 24, or in any other way. The obligation of the members of the 
Article 6 technical expert review team to maintain confidentiality continues after the 
completion of the Article 6 technical expert review.  
23. When confidential information is to be reviewed, the Article 6 technical expert rev iew 
team shall report in the Article 6 technical expert review report the inconsistencies found in 
the confidential information, if applicable, ensuring that any review process for confidential FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
 17 information and any reporting arising from the review process does not directly or indirectly 
compromise the confidentiality of the information.  
VIII.  Role of the Party  
24. The participating Party under review shall cooperate with the Article 6 technical 
expert review team and the secretariat and make every reasonable effort t o respond to all 
questions and provide additional clarifying information and comments in a timely manner, 
including through the resubmission of information as necessary, prior to the finalization of 
the Article 6 technical expert review report.  
25. The partici pating Party under review shall make every reasonable effort to resolve any 
inconsistencies in its reporting in accordance with the findings of the consistency checks and 
recommendations specified by the Article 6 technical expert review teams in the perio d 
before the next submission of information as per decision 2/CMA.3, annex, chapter IV 
(Reporting).  
IX. Role of the Article 6 technical expert review team  
26. Technical experts, in conducting Article 6 technical expert reviews, shall adhere to 
these guidelines and  the annex to decision 2/CMA.3 and any future relevant decisions of the 
CMA.  
27. Technical experts shall participate in the Article 6 technical expert review in their 
individual expert capacity.  
X. Role of the secretariat  
28. The secretariat shall organize Article 6 technical expert reviews, including the 
provision of a schedule that coordinates with the schedule of the technical expert review 
referred to in decision 18/CMA.1, annex, chapter VII, logistical and administrative 
arrangements for the review, and  review tools and materials. The secretariat shall also ensure 
that the Article 6 technical expert review team members have access to information in the 
centralized accounting and reporting platform and the Article 6 database relevant to the 
participating Party under review, including in relation to other participating Parties in the 
cooperative approach(es) of the participating Party under review.  
29. In compiling the information for the Article 6 technical expert review, the secretariat 
shall conduct a comple teness check of the information for consideration by the Article 6 
technical expert review team.  
30. The secretariat, together with the Article 6 lead reviewers (see chap. XI.C below), 
shall facilitate communication between the Party under review and the Artic le 6 technical 
expert review team.  
31. The secretariat, under the guidance of the  Article 6  lead reviewers, shall compile and 
edit the final Article 6 technical expert review reports.  
32. The secretariat shall facilitate annual meetings of the Article 6 lead reviewers, where 
possible, in conjunction with the annual meeting of lead reviewers under Article 13.  
33. The secretariat shall develop and implement the training programme for technical 
experts participating in the Article 6 technical expert reviews, as outli ned in annex IV to this 
decision.  
34. The secretariat shall notify other Parties participating in the same cooperative 
approach(es) as the Party under review when the Article 6 technical review report is 
published.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
18  XI. Article 6 technical expert review team and in stitutional 
arrangements  
A. General  
35. Technical experts shall be nominated to the UNFCCC roster of experts by Parties to 
the Paris Agreement and, as appropriate, by intergovernmental organizations.  
36. Technical experts shall complete the training programme for the  Article 6 technical 
experts referred to in paragraph 33 above prior to serving on an Article 6 technical expert 
review team.  
37. Each submission that triggers an Article 6 technical expert review will be assigned to 
a single Article 6 technical expert review team with members selected from the UNFCCC 
roster of experts.  
B. Composition  
38. Technical experts shall have recognized competence in the area of Article 6 technical 
expert reviews.  
39. The secretariat shall compose a technical review team in such a way that the col lective 
skills and competencies of the technical expert review teams correspond to the information 
to be reviewed and that a single Article 6 technical expert team includes at least two experts . 
40. At least one team member should be fluent in a language of th e participating Party 
under review, if possible.  
41. The secretariat shall select the members of the Article 6 technical expert review team 
with a view to achieving a balance between experts from developed and developing country 
Parties. The secretariat shall ensure geographical and gender balance among the technical 
experts, to the extent possible. When selecting members of the technical expert review team 
for centralized reviews of submissions from the least developed countries and small island 
developing Sta tes, the secretariat shall strive to include technical experts from the least 
developed countries and small island developing States, while at the same time ensuring that 
those experts do not participate in reviews for the Party that nominated them to the UNFCCC 
roster of experts.  
42. The same Article 6 technical expert review team shall not perform two successive 
reviews of a participating Party’s submission.  
43. The Article 6 technical expert review team shall include two co -lead reviewers, one 
from a developed c ountry Party and the other from a developing country Party, that have not 
been nominated to the UNFCCC roster of experts by the participating Party under review.  
44. The secretariat, in selecting lead reviewers, should consider their relevant experience, 
notin g that experience in conducting Article 6 technical expert reviews will develop as the 
review process evolves.  
45. Experts from developing country Parties participating in the Article 6 technical expert 
review team shall be funded according to the existing pro cedures for participation in 
UNFCCC activities.  
C. Article 6 lead reviewers  
46. Article 6 lead reviewers shall oversee the work of the Article 6 technical expert review 
team in accordance with these guidelines.  
47. Article 6 lead reviewers shall ensure that the Artic le 6 technical expert reviews in 
which they participate are conducted in accordance with these guidelines. Article 6 lead 
reviewers shall ensure the quality and objectivity of the Article 6 technical expert review, the FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
 19 continuity and consistency of reviews  for all participating Parties, and the timeliness of the 
reviews.  
48. Article 6 lead reviewers shall communicate necessary information to the Article 6 
technical expert review team , monitor the progress of the Article 6 technical expert review , 
coordinate th e submission of queries of the Article 6 technical expert review team to the 
participating Party under review and coordinate the inclusion of the responses of the Party in 
the Article 6 technical expert review report , reiterate issues raised in previous Ar ticle 6 
technical expert review reports , and provide technical advice to the members of the Article 6 
technical expert review team.  
49. At the request of the Paris Agreement Implementation and Compliance Committee, 
Article 6 lead reviewers should liaise with the Paris Agreement Implementation and 
Compliance Committee in cases of significant and persistent inconsistencies in accordance 
with paragraph 17(f) of this decision, and decision 20/CMA.1, annex, paragraph 22(b).  
50. Article 6 lead reviewers shall meet annually at the Article 6 lead reviewers’ meeting 
to discuss how to improve the quality, efficiency and consistency of Article 6 technical expert 
reviews and shall develop conclusions on the basis of these discussions as an input to 
Article  6 technical exp ert review  practice . 
XII. Article 6 technical expert review report  
51. The Article 6 technical expert review report shall contain the results of the Article 6 
technical expert review, in accordance with the scope of the Article 6 technical expert review 
identified  in chapter II above.  
52. Article 6 technical expert review teams will follow the Article 6 technical expert 
review report outlines contained in annex III to this decision.  
53. Article 6 technical expert review reports shall be made publicly available on the 
UNFCCC website via the centralized accounting and reporting platform.FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
20  Annex III * 
  Outline of the Article 6 technical expert review report  
[English only]  
I. Outline of the Article 6 technical expert review report on the 
initial report and updated initial report referred to in 
decision 2/CMA.3, annex, chapter V (Review)  
Abbreviations and acronyms  
I. Introduction and summary  
A. Introduction  
B. Process overview  
C. Scope of the review  
D. Summary  
E. Information provided by the Party pursu ant to decision 2/CMA.3, annex, 
chapter  IV.A (Initial report)  
II. Technical review of the information reported  
A. A review of the consistency of the information submitted by the Party under 
Article  6, paragraph 2, with decision 2/CMA.3, annex, paragraphs 18 –19, and any future 
relevant decisions by the CMA (annex II, para. 2(a –b)) 
B. Identification of capacity -building needs and areas of improvement for the Party 
related to the implementation of Article 6, paragraph 2, and decision 2/CMA.3 (annex II, 
para. 7)  
C. Recomme ndations identified by the technical expert review teams in previous 
technical reviews that the Party has not resolved  
III. Conclusions and recommendations  
Annex  
Documents and information received and used during the review  
 
 * The list of  the abbreviations and  acronyms  used in this annex can be found at the end of the decision . FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
 21 II. Outline of the Article 6 technical ex pert review report o n the 
regular information annex to the biennial transparency 
report referred to in decision 2/CMA.3, annex, chapter V 
(Review)  
Abbreviations and acronyms  
I. Introduction and summary  
A. Introduction  
B. Process overview  
C. Scope of the review  
D. Summary  
E. Information provided by the Party pursuant to decision 2/CMA.3, annex, 
chapter  IV.C (Regular information)  
II. Technical review of the information reported  
A. A review of the consistency of the information submitted by the Party under Article 
6, paragraph  2, with decision 2/CMA.3, annex, paragraphs 21 –23, and any future relevant 
decisions by the CMA (annex II, para. 2(c –d)) 
B. Identification of capacity -building needs and areas of improvement for the Party 
related to the implementation of Article 6, paragraph  2, and decision 2/CMA.3 (annex II, 
para. 7)  
C. Recommendations identified by the technical expert review teams in previous 
technical reviews that the Party has not resolved  
III. Conclusions and recommendations  
Annex   
Documents and information received and used du ring the review  FCCC/P A/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
22  Annex IV * 
  Training programme for technical experts participating in 
the Article 6 technical expert review  
[English only]  
I. General  
1. The aim of the training programme is to train technical experts participating in the 
Article  6 technical expert review.  
II. Availability  
2. The training programme will be available to experts included on the UNFCCC roster 
of experts.  
3. All courses will be available online all year round, with an option to download them.  
III. Examinations  
4. All courses will have an examination.  
5. Examination procedures will be standardized, objective and transparent.  
6. Examinations will be offered either online or in person. When participants attend an 
in-person training seminar, the examination may take place during that seminar. Other 
arrangements for examinations may also be made, provided that the examinations take place 
under the superv ision of the secretariat.  
IV. Instructed courses  
7. Once a year, online training courses facilitated by instructor(s) will be available. In -
person training seminars will also be available. Additional regional training seminars targeted 
at technical experts from d eveloping country Parties, particularly the least developed 
countries and small island developing States, may be organized.  
V. Courses of the training programme  
8. The following courses relating to the review of information submitted pursuant to 
decision 2/CMA.3 , annex, chapter IV (Reporting), will be included in the training 
programme:  
(a) Requirements of the initial report (decision 2/CMA.3 , annex, para. 18 ); 
(b) Requirements of the regular and annual information (decision 2/CMA.3 , 
annex, paras. 20, 22 and 23 ). 
 
 * The list of the abbreviations and acronyms  used in this annex can be found at the end of the decision . FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
 23 Annex V * 
  Outline of the initial report and updated initial report 
referred to in decision 2/CMA.3, annex, chapter IV.A (Initial 
report)1 
[English only]  
I. Participation respons ibilities (para. 18(a))  
A. Information on how the Party ensures that it is a Party to the Paris Agreement (para. 
18(a), para. 4(a), to be updated by para. 21(a))  
B. Information on how the Party ensures that it has prepared, has communicated  and is 
maintaining an NDC in accordance with Article 4, paragraph 2 (para. 18(a), para. 4(b), to 
be updated by para. 21(a))  
C. Information on how the Party ensures it has arrangements in place for authorizing 
the use of ITMOs towards achievement of NDCs purs uant to Article 6, paragraph 3 (para. 
18(a), para. 4(c), to be updated by para. 21(a))  
D. Information on how the Party ensures it has arrangements in place that are consistent 
with the Article 6, paragraph 2, guidance and relevant decisions of the CMA for tra cking 
ITMOs (para. 18(a), para. 4(d), to be updated by para. 21(a))  
E. Information on whether the most recent national inventory report required in 
accordance with decision 18/CMA.1 has been provided (para. 18(a), para. 4(e), to be 
updated by para. 21(a))  
F. Information on how the Party ensures participation contributes to the 
implementation of its NDC and long -term low -emission development strategy, if it has 
submitted one, and the long -term goals of the Paris Agreement (para. 18(a), para. 4(f), to be 
updated by  para.  21(a))  
II. Description of the Party’s NDC , as referred to in decision 18/CMA.1, 
annex, paragraph 64, where a participating Party has not yet submitted 
a biennial transparency report (para. 18(b), to be updated by para. 
21(b))  
A. Target(s) and description, including target type(s) (decision 18/CMA.1, annex, para. 
64(a))  
B. Target year(s) or period(s), and whether they are single -year or multi -year target(s) 
(decision 18/CMA.1, annex, para. 64(b))  
C. Reference point(s), level(s), baseline(s), base year(s) or starti ng point(s), and their 
respective value(s) (decision 18/CMA.1, annex, para. 64(c))  
D. Time frame(s) and/or periods for implementation (decision 18/CMA.1, annex, 
para.  64(d))  
 
 * The list of the abbreviations and acronyms  used in this annex can be found at the end of the decision . 
 1  References to chapters and paragraphs in the outline are to chapters and paragraphs in the annex to 
decision 2/CMA.3 , unless stated otherwise . FCCC/PA/ CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
24  E. Scope and coverage, including, as relevant, sectors, categories, activities, sources 
and sinks, pools and gases (decision 18/CMA.1, annex, para. 64(e))  
F. Intention to use cooperative approaches that involve the use of internationally 
transferred mitigation outcomes under Article 6  towards NDCs under Article 4 (decision 
18/CMA.1, annex, para.  64(f))  
G. Any updates or clarifications of previously reported information (e.g. recalculation 
of previously reported inventory data, or greater detail on methodologies or use of 
cooperative approaches) (decision 18/CMA.1, annex, para. 64(g))  
III. Information on  ITMO metrics, method for applying corresponding  
adjustments and method for quantification of the NDC (para. 18(c –f)) 
A. ITMO metrics (para. 18(c))  
B. Method for applying corresponding adjustments as per chapter III.B (Application of 
corresponding adjustments) ( para. 18(c))  
1. Description of the method for applying corresponding adjustment for multi -
year or single -year NDCs that will be applied consistently throughout the period of NDC 
implementation, if applicable (para. 18(c))  
2. Description of the method for applying corresponding adjustments where the 
method is a multi -year emissions trajectory, trajectories or budget, if applicable (para. 
18(c))  
C. Quantification of the Party’s mitigation information in its NDC in t CO 2 eq, 
includi ng the sectors, sources, GHGs and time periods covered by the NDC, the reference 
level of emissions and removals for the relevant year or period, and the target level for its 
NDC or, where this is not possible, the methodology for the quantification of the  NDC in 
t CO 2 eq (para. 18(d))  
D. Quantification of the Party’s NDC, or the portion in the relevant non -GHG indicator, 
in a non -GHG metric determined by each participating Party, if applicable (para. 18(e))  
E. For a first or first updated NDC consisting of polic ies and measures that is not 
quantified, information on quantification of the Party’s emission level resulting from the 
policies and measures that are relevant to the implementation of the cooperative approach 
and its mitigation activities for the categori es of anthropogenic emissions by sources and 
removals by sinks, as identified by the first transferring Party pursuant to paragraph 10, and 
the time periods covered by the NDC (para. 18(f))  
IV. Information on each cooperative approach (para. 18(g –i), para. 19)  
Note: For the initial report and the updated initial report, chapters A –H below should be 
repeated for each cooperative approach. For each further cooperative approach, each 
participating Party shall submit the information referred to in para graph  18(g–i) of the 
annex to decision 2/CMA.3 in an updated initial report (decision 2/CMA.3, annex, para. 19).  
A. Copy of the authorization by the participating Party (para. 18(g))  
B. Description of the cooperative approach (para. 18(g))  
C. Duration of the cooperative approac h (para. 18(g))  
D. Expected mitigation for each year of the duration of the cooperative approach 
(para.  18(g))  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
 25 E. Participating Parties involved in the cooperative approach (para. 18(g))  
F. Authorized entities (para. 18(g))  
G. Description of how the cooperative approa ch ensures environmental integrity (para. 
18(h), to be updated by para. 22(b))  
1. Description of how the cooperative approach ensures that there is no net 
increase in global emissions within and between NDC implementation periods (para. 
18(h)(i), to be update d by para. 22(b)(i))  
2. Description of how the cooperative approach ensures environmental integrity 
through robust, transparent governance and the quality of mitigation outcomes, including 
through conservative reference levels and baselines set in a conservat ive way and below 
‘business as usual’ emission projections (including by taking into account all existing 
policies and addressing uncertainties in quantification and potential leakage) (para. 
18(h)(ii), to be updated by para. 22(b)(ii))  
3. Description of how the cooperative approach is minimizing the risk of non -
permanence of mitigation across several NDC periods and how, when reversals of emission 
reductions or removals occur, the cooperative approach will ensure that these are addressed 
in full (para. 18(h)(iii), to be updated by para. 22(b)(iii))  
H. Additional description of the cooperative approach (para. 18(i))  
1. Description of how the cooperative approach minimizes and, where possible, 
avoids negative environmental, economic and social impac ts (para. 18(i)(i), to be updated 
by para.  22(f))  
2. Description of how the cooperative approach reflects the eleventh preambular 
paragraph of the Paris Agreement , according to which acknowledging that climate change 
is a common concern of humankind, Parties should, when taking action to address climate 
change, respect, promote and consider their respective obligations on human rights, the 
right to health, the rights of indigenous peoples, local communities, migrants, children, 
persons with disabilities and pe ople in vulnerable situations and the right to development, 
as well as gender equality, empowerment of women and intergenerational equity (para. 
18(i)(ii), to be updated by para.  22(g))  
3. Description of how the cooperative approach is consistent with the 
sustainable development objectives of the Party, noting national prerogatives (para. 
18(i)(iii), to be updated by para. 22(h))  
4. Description of how the cooperative approach applies any safeguards and 
limits set out in further guidance from the CMA pursuant to c hapter III.D (para. 18(i)(iv), to 
be updated by para. 22(i))  
5. Description of how the cooperative approach contributes resources for 
adaptation pursuant to chapter VII (Ambition in mitigation and adaptation actions), if 
applicable (para. 18(i)(v), to be upda ted by para. 22(j))  
6. Description of how the cooperative approach delivers overall mitigation in 
global emissions pursuant to chapter VII (Ambition in mitigation and adaptation actions), if 
applicable (para. 18(i)(vi), to be updated by para. 22(k))  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
26  Annex VI * 
Outline of annex 4 (Information in relation to the Party’s 
participation in cooperative approaches, as applicable) to the 
biennial transparency report referred to in decision 2/CMA.3, 
annex, chapter IV.C (Regular information), paragraphs 21 –221 
[English only]  
I. Parti cipation responsibilities (para. 21(a))  
A. Information on how the Party ensures that it is a Party to the Paris Agreement (para. 
21(a), para. 4(a), update to para. 18(a))  
B. Information on how the Party ensures that it has prepared, communicated and is 
maintaini ng an NDC in accordance with Article 4, paragraph 2 (para. 21(a), para. 4(b), 
update to para. 18(a))  
C. Information on how the Party ensures it has arrangements in place for authorizing 
the use of ITMOs towards achievement of NDCs pursuant to Article 6, parag raph 3 (para. 
21(a), para. 4(c), update to para. 18(a))  
D. Information on how the Party ensures it has arrangements in place that are consistent 
with the Article 6, paragraph 2, guidance and relevant decisions of the CMA for tracking 
ITMOs (para. 21(a), para.  4(d), update to para. 18(a))  
E. Information on whether the most recent national inventory report required in 
accordance with decision 18/CMA.1 has been provided (para. 21(a), para. 4(e), update to 
para. 18(a))  
F. Information on how the Party ensures participati on contributes to the 
implementation of its NDC and long -term low -emission development strategy, if it has 
submitted one, and the long -term goals of the Paris Agreement (para. 21(a), para. 4(f), 
update to para. 18(a))  
II. Updates to the information provided by  the Party in its initial report as 
per decision 2/CMA.3, annex, chapter IV.A (Initial report), and any 
previous biennial transparency reports for any information that is not 
included in the biennial transparency report pursuant to decision 
18/CMA.1, annex , paragraph 64 (para. 21(b), update to para. 18(b))  
III. Information on authorizations and information on its authorization(s) 
of use of ITMOs towards achievement of NDCs and authorization for 
use for other international mitigation purposes, including any chang es 
to earlier authorizations, pursuant to Article 6, paragraph 3 
(para.  21(c))  
IV. Information on how corresponding adjustments undertaken in the 
latest reporting period, pursuant to decision 2/CMA.3, annex, 
chapter  III (Corresponding adjustments) ensure that double counting is 
 
 * The list of the abbreviations and acronyms  used in this annex can be found at the end of the decision . 
 1  References to chapters and paragraphs in the outline are to chapters and paragraphs in the annex to 
decision 2/CMA.3, unless state d otherwise.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
 27 avoided in accordance with paragraph 36 of decision 1/CP.21 and are 
representative of progress towards implementation and achievement of 
the Party’s NDC, and how those corresponding adjustments  ensure that 
participation in cooperative approaches does not lead to a net increase 
in emissions across participating Parties within and between NDC 
implementation periods (para. 21(d))  
V. Information on how the Party has ensured that ITMOs that have been 
used towards achievement of its NDC or mitigation outcome(s) 
authorized for use and that have been used for other international 
mitigation purposes will not be further transferred, further cancelled or 
otherwise used (para. 21(e))  
VI. Information on each coopera tive approach (para. 22(a –k)) 
Note: Chapters A –K below should be repeated for each cooperative approach.  
A. Description of how the cooperative approach contributes to the mitigation of GHGs 
and the implementation of the NDC (para. 22(a))  
B. Description of how the cooperative approach ensures environmental integrity 
(para.  22(b), update to para. 18(h))  
1. Description of how the cooperative approach ensures that there is no net 
increase in global emissions within and between NDC implementation per iods 
(para.  22(b)(i), update to para. 18(h)(i))  
2. Description of how the cooperative approach ensures environmental integrity 
through robust, transparent governance and the quality of mitigation outcomes, including 
through conservative reference levels and b aselines set in a conservative way and below 
‘business as usual’ emission projections (including by taking into account all existing policies 
and addressing uncertainties in quantification and potential leakage) (para. 22(b)(ii), update 
to para. 18(h)(ii))  
3. Description of how the cooperative approach is minimizing the risk of non -
permanence of mitigation across several NDC periods and how, when reversals of emission 
reductions or removals occur, the cooperative approach will ensure that these are addressed 
in full (para. 22(b)(iii), update to para. 18(h)(iii))  
C. Where a mitigation outcome is measured and transferred in t CO 2 eq, description of 
how the cooperative approach provides for the measurement of mitigation outcomes in 
accordance with the methodologies a nd metrics assessed by the Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change and adopted by the CMA (para.  22(c))  
D. Where a mitigation outcome is measured and first transferred in a non -GHG metric 
determined by the participating Parties, description of how the coope rative approach 
ensures that the method for converting the non -GHG metric into t CO 2 eq is appropriate for 
the specific non -GHG metric and the mitigation scenario in which it is applied, including: 
(para. 22(d))  
1. Description of how the conversion method rep resents the emission reductions 
or removals that occur within the geographical boundaries and time frame in which the 
non-GHG mitigation outcome was generated (para. 22(d)(i))  
2. Description of how the conversion method is appropriate for the specific 
non-CO 2 eq metric, including a demonstration of how the selection of the conversion method FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
28  and conversion factor(s) applied take into consideration the specific scenario in which the 
mitigation action occurs (para. 22(d)(ii))  
3. Description of how the conversion met hod is transparent, including a 
description of the method, the source of the underlying data, how the data are used, and how 
the method is applied in a conservative manner that addresses uncertainty and ensures 
environmental integrity (para. 22(d)(iii))  
E. Description of how the cooperative approach provides for, as applicable, the 
measurement of mitigation co -benefits resulting from adaptation actions and/or economic 
diversification plans (para. 22(e))  
F. Description of how the cooperative approach minimizes and , where possible, avoids 
negative environmental, economic and social impacts (para. 22(f), update to para. 18(i)(i))  
G. Description of how the cooperative approach reflects the eleventh preambular 
paragraph of the Paris Agreement , according to which acknowledging that climate change 
is a common concern of humankind, Parties should, when taking action to address climate 
change, respect, promote and consider their respective obligations on human rights, the 
right to health, the rights of indigenous peop les, local communities, migrants, children, 
persons with disabilities and people in vulnerable situations and the right to development, 
as well as gender equality, empowerment of women and intergenerational equity (para. 
22(g), update to para. 18(i)(ii))  
H. Description of how the cooperative approach is consistent with sustainable 
development objectives of the Party, noting national prerogatives (para. 22(h), update to 
para. 18(i)(iii))  
I. Description of how the cooperative approach applies any safeguards and lim its set 
out in further guidance from the CMA pursuant to chapter III.D (para. 22(i), update to para. 
18(i)(iv))  
J. Description of how the cooperative approach contributes resources for adaptation 
pursuant to chapter VII (Ambition in mitigation and adaptation actions), if applicable (para. 
22(j), update to para. 18(i)(v))  
K. Description of how the cooperative approach delivers overall mitigation in global 
emissions pursuant to chapter VII (Ambition in mitigation and adaptation actions), if 
applicable (para. 22(k),  update to para. 18(i)(vi))  
  Annex I on additional information  
  Annex II for confidential information   
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
 29 
 
Annex VII * 
Draft version of the agreed electronic format referred to in decision 2/CMA.3, annex, chapter IV.B 
(Annual information)  
[English only]  
Draft version of the agreed electronic format is available digitally at https://unfccc.int/documents/624366 . 
{Required fields are in bold}   
Table 1: Heading  
Party  Party  
Reported year  Year  
a  The annual period from 1 January to 31 December during  
which actions occurred.  
Table 2: Actions        
Article 6 
database  
record 
ID Cooperative 
approacha ITMO  
Unique identifier   Metric and quantity   ITMO details  
First 
unique 
identifierb Last 
unique 
identifierc Underlying 
unit block 
start IDd Underlying 
unit block 
ende  Metricf Quantity  
(expressed 
in metric)g Quantity 
(t CO 2 eq) Conversion 
factor 
(reporting 
Party)h  First 
transferring 
participating 
Partyi Vintagej Sector(s)k Activity 
type(s)l 
  Cooperative 
approach  
Article 6.4 
mechanism                        Energy  
IPPU  
AFOLU  
Waste     
  
 
 * The list of the abbreviations and acronyms  used in this annex can be found at the end of the decision .  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
30  
 
(Table continues)  
 Authorization    
First transfer 
definitionp  Actions  
Date of 
authorizationm Authorization 
IDn Purposes for 
authorization  OIMP 
authorized by 
the Partyo  Action details   
 Action 
dateq Action 
typer Transferring 
participating 
Partys Acquiring 
participating 
Partyt Purposes for 
cancellationu Using 
participating Party 
or authorized 
entity or entities  First 
transferv 
  NDC  
OIMP  
NDC and 
OIMP   Authorization  
Issuance  
Use or 
cancellation          
   a Name/ID of the cooperative approach as per common nomenclatures , which are to be established at CMA 5  (November –December 2023) . 
   b First ITMO unique identifier.  
   c Last ITMO unique identifier.  
   d Underlying unit block start ID for ITMOs recorded on the basis of cooperative approach units tracked in  an underlying cooperative approach registry.  
   e Underlying unit block end ID for ITMOs recorded on the basis of  cooperative approach units tracked in an underlying cooperative approach registry.  
   f GHG or non -GHG.  
   g For non -GHG, the metric in which the ITMO was generated as per common nomenclatures.  
   h The conversion method or factor of the non -GHG units in the reporting Party’s as per decision 2/CMA.3, annex, para. 22(d).  
   i Participating Party in which the mitigation outcome was generated as per common nomenclatures.  
   j Year in which the mitigation outcome occurred.  
   k Sector(s) where the mitigation o utcome occurred as per common nomenclatures based on IPCC guidelines.  
   l Description of the mitigation activity type(s) as per common nomenclatures.  
   m Date of authorization by first transferring Party.  
   n Authorization ID as assigned by the first transferring Party, may include a link to the public evidence of authorization by t he first transferring Party.  
   o To be completed  when “Purposes for autho rization” is “OIMP” or “NDC and OIMP”.  
   p If OIMP is authorized, the first transferring participating Party definition of “first transfer” as per decision 2/CMA.3, ann ex, para. 2(b).  
   q Date on which the action was executed in the registry of the repor ting Party.  
   r Action type as per decision 2/CMA.3, annex, para . 20(a) , and any further relevant guidance.  
   s Initiating participating Party, including for cancellations and uses.  
   t Participating Party receiving the ITMOs.  
   u For relevant actions,  the specific purposes for cancellation towards which ITMOs can be or were used.  
   v Approach for first transfer as per decision 2/CMA.3, annex, para . 2, to be clarified, subject to defining the list of actions as per note “r” above.  
   
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
 31 
 
Table 3: Holdings        
Article 6 
database  
record 
ID Cooperative 
approacha ITMO  
Unique identifier   Metric and quantity   ITMO details  
First 
unique 
identifierb Last 
unique 
identifierc Underlying 
unit block 
start IDd Underlying 
unit block 
ende  Metricf Quantity  
(expressed 
in metric)g Quantity 
(t CO 2 eq) Conversion 
factor 
(reporting 
Party)h  First 
transferring 
participating 
Partyi Vintagej Sector(s)k Activity 
type(s)l 
  Coopera tive 
approach  
Article 6.4 
mechanism                        Energy  
IPPU  
AFOLU  
Waste     
 
(Table continues)  
 Authorization    
First transfer definitionp Date of 
authorizationm Authorization 
IDn  
Purposes for 
authorization   
OIMP 
authorized by 
the Partyo 
   NDC  
OIMP  
NDC and OIMP   Authorization  
Issuance  
Use or cancellation  
   a Name/unique identifier of the cooperative approach as per common nomenclatures , which are to be established at CMA 5 (November –December 2023) . 
   b First ITMO unique identifier.  
   c Last ITMO unique identifier.  
   d Underlying unit block start ID for ITMOs recorded on the basis of  cooperative approach units tracked in an underlying cooperative approach registry.  
   e Underlying unit block end ID for ITMOs recorded on the basis of cooperative approach units tracked in an underlying cooperati ve approach registry.  
   f GHG or non -GHG.  
   g For non -GHG, the metric in which the ITMO was generated as per common nomenclatures.  
   h The conversion method or  factor of the non -GHG units in the reporting Party’s as per decision 2/CMA.3, annex, para. 22(d).  
   i Participating Party in which the  mitigation outcome was generated as per common nomenclatures.  
   j Year in which the mitigation outcome occurred.  
   k Sector(s) where the mitigation outcome occurred as per common nomenclatures based on IPCC guidelines.  
   l Description of the mitigation  activity type(s) as per common nomenclatures.  
   m Date of authorization by first transferring Party.  
   n Authorization ID as assigned by the first transferring Party, may include a link to the public evidence of authorization by t he first transferring P arty. 
   o To be completed  when “Purposes for authorization” is “OIMP” or “NDC and OIMP”.  
   p If OIMP is authorized, the first transferring participating Party definition of “first transfer” as per decision 2/CMA.3, ann ex, para. 2(b).  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
32  Abbreviations and acronyms  
AFOLU  agriculture, forestry and other land use  
Article 6.4 mechanism  mechanism established by Article 6, paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreement  
CMA  Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement  
CO 2 carbon dioxide  
CO 2 eq carbon dioxide equivalent  
GHG  greenhouse gas  
IPCC  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change  
IPPU  industrial processes and product use  
ITMO  internationally transferred mitigation outcome  
NDC  nationally determined contribution  
OIMP * other international mitigation purpose  
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
 
 * Only in annex VII, tables 1 –3. FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
 33 Decision 7/CMA.4  
Guidance on the mechanism established by Article 6, 
paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreement  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
Recalling  the mechanism established by Article 6, paragraph 4, of the Paris 
Agreement and the aims referred to therein,  
Also recalling  Article 6, paragraph 1, of the Paris Agreement,  
Further recalling  the eleventh preambular paragraph of the Par is Agreement, 
according to which acknowledging that climate change is a common concern of humankind, 
Parties should, when taking action to address climate change, respect, promote and consider 
their respective obligations on human rights, the right to heal th, the rights of indigenous 
peoples, local communities, migrants, children, persons with disabilities and people in 
vulnerable situations and the right to development, as well as gender equality, empowerment 
of women and intergenerational equity,  
Recallin g decision 3/CMA.3 and its annex, containing the rules, modalities and 
procedures for the mechanism established by Article 6, paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreement,  
Also recalling  that, pursuant to decision 2/CMA.3, annex, paragraph 1(g), Article 6, 
paragrap h 4, emission reductions, when they are authorized for use towards achievement of 
nationally determined contributions and/or authorized for use for other international 
mitigation purposes, are internationally transferred mitigation outcomes and relevant 
guidance under Article 6, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement  applies,  
1. Decides to elaborate the processes referred to in decision 3/CMA.3, paragraph 7(b –g), 
on the basis of the rules, modalities and procedures for the mechanism  established by 
Article  6, par agraph 4, of the Paris Agreement , contained in annex I;  
2. Welcomes  the designation of national authorities for the mechanism by 28 Parties as 
at 18 November 2022;  
3. Reminds  Parties wishing to participate in the mechanism to designate a national 
authority for the mechanism and communicate that designation to the secretariat;  
4. Notes  that the Supervisory Body for the mechanism held its 1st meeting in July 2022 
after the final nominations to the Supervisory Body had been received in June 2022 and held 
three meetings in total in 2022;  
5. Welcomes  the annual report for 2022 of the Supervisory Body to the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the m eeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement and its addendum;1 
6. Commends the work undertaken by the Supervisory Body since its inception to 
address the mandates given by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Paris Agre ement at its third session;2 
7. Adopts  the rules of procedure of the Supervisory Body, contained in annex II;  
8. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice to continue its 
consideration of, and to develop, on the basis of the rules, mo dalities and procedures for the 
mechanism contained in the annex to decision 3/CMA.3, recommendations, for consideration 
and adoption by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Paris Agreement at its sixth session (Novemb er 2024), on further responsibilities of the 
Supervisory Body and of Parties that host Article 6, paragraph 4, activities in order for such 
 
 1  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/6 and Add.1.  
 2 Decision 3/CMA.3, para. 6.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
34  host Parties to elaborate on and apply national arrangements for the mechanism under the 
approval and supervision of  the Supervisory Body;  
9. Also requests  the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice to 
continue its consideration of, and to develop, on the basis of the rules, modalities and 
procedures for the mechanism and elaboration thereon, recommendatio ns for consideration 
and adoption by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Paris Agreement at its fifth session (November –December 2023) on:  
(a) Consideration of whether Article 6, paragraph 4, activities could include 
emis sion avoidance and conservation enhancement activities;  
(b) Connection of the mechanism registry to the international registry as per 
paragraph 63 of the rules, modalities and procedures for the mechanism, as well as to other 
registries referred to in decision  2/CMA.3, annex, paragraph 29, if applicable, including the 
nature and extent of interoperable features;  
(c) Provision of a statement by the host Party to the Supervisory Body specifying 
whether it authorizes Article 6, paragraph 4, emission reductions issued for an Article 6, 
paragraph 4, activity for use towards achievement of nationally determined contributions 
and/or for other international mitigation purposes, as defined in decision 2/CMA.3, in 
accordance with paragraph 42 of the rules, modalities and proc edures, including its timing, 
relevant information on the authorization and any revisions;  
10. Invites  Parties and admitted observer organizations to submit, via the submission 
portal,3 by 15 March 2023, their views on the matters referred to in paragraph 9 a bove, and 
requests  the secretariat to prepare a synthesis report on the submissions for consideration by 
the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice at its fifty -eighth session (June 
2023);  
11. Also requests  the secretariat to organize a techni cal expert dialogue, to be held 
between the fifty -eighth and fifty -ninth (November –December 2023) sessions of the 
Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice,  to consider the matters referred to 
in paragraph 9  above, taking into account the sub missions and the synthesis report referred 
to in paragraph 10 above, ensuring broad participation of Parties;  
12. Further requests  the secretariat to expedite the implementation of the capacity -
building programme referred to in decision 3/CMA.3, paragraph 14, within a time frame in 
which elements are prioritized that are more urgent and relevant to enabling Parties to 
participate in the mechanism, taking into account the work it has already initiated under the 
capacity -building programme, and to report regularl y on the status of its implementation to 
the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement;  
13. Notes that the levels of share of proceeds for administrative expenses contained in 
annex I, chapter V, are to be reviewed periodically4 for the  sound operation of the 
Supervisory Body and for enabling a periodic contribution of funds to the Adaptation Fund;  
14. Also notes  that the Supervisory Body will determine a specific level for each fee type,  
within the maximum level therei n, when developing procedures for processing requests in 
the activity cycle under the mechanism, with the intention to set the fee levels low where 
appropriate;  
15. Further notes  that, for the monetary contributions from individual Article 6, 
paragraph 4, acti vities to the Adaptation Fund in accordance with the rules, modalities and 
procedures for the mechanism,5 the Supervisory Body agreed to deduct 3 per cent of the 
issuance fee paid for each request for issuance of Article 6, paragraph 4, emission reduction s 
and collectively transfer it annually to the Adaptation Fund;  
 
 3 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx .  
 4 See d ecision  3/CMA.3, para. 8.  
 5 Decision 3/CMA.3, annex, para. 67(b).  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
 35 16. Notes that the level of and process for monetary contributions from individual 
Article  6, paragraph 4, activities to the Adaptation Fund may be modified by the Supervisory 
Body in future on th e basis of its review of the implementation of the provision thereon;  
17. Decides  that the level and frequency of a periodic contribution from the remaining 
funds received from the share of proceeds for administrative expenses to the Adaptation Fund 
shall be d etermined by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to 
the Paris Agreement on the basis of annual reviews of the status of those funds;  
18. Acknowledges  the work undertaken by the Supervisory Body based on the request 
from the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement in decision 3/CMA.3, paragraph 6(c –d); 
19. Invites  Parties and admitted observer organizations to submit, via the submission 
portal, by 15 March 2023, their views on activities involving removals, including appropriate 
monitoring, reporting, accounting for removals and crediting periods, addressing revers als, 
avoidance of leakage, and avoidance of other negative environmental and social impacts, in 
addition to the activities referred to in chapter V of the rules, modalities and procedures;  
20. Requests the Supervisory Body to consider the views of Parties and  observers in 
elaborating and further developing recommendations on activities involving removals, as 
referred to in paragraph 19 above, on the basis of the rules, modalities and procedures, and 
taking into account the mandate provided to the Supervisory B ody contained in paragraph 
24(a)(ix) of the rules, modalities and procedures, for consideration and adoption by the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its 
fifth session;   
21. Also requests  the Supervisory Body to elaborate and further develop recommendations,  
on the basis of the rules, modalities and procedures, for consideration and adoption by the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its 
fifth session, on the application of the requirements referred to in chapter V.B 
(Methodologies)  of the rules, modalities and procedures;  
22. Further requests  the Supervisory Body, while developing the recommendations 
referred to in paragraphs 20 –21 above , to consider broad er inputs from stakeholders provided 
in a structured public consultation process;  
23. Requests the Supervisory Body to facilitate the tasks related to the transition of clean 
development mechanism activities to the mechanism by:6 
(a) Developing and operationalizi ng a procedure for requesting transition, which 
includes relevant forms, by no later than June 2023;  
(b) Developing and operationalizing the transition process and reporting back to 
the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Par is Agreement at 
its fifth session;  
24. Expresses  its appreciation  for the transfer of funds from the Trust Fund for the Clean 
Development Mechanism to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities for the work of the 
Supervisory Body carried out in accordance wi th decision 2/CMP.16, paragraphs 18‒19;  
25. Takes  note of the agreed resource allocation plan of the Supervisory Body for 2023,7 
which provides an estimated budget for its work, as outlined in its workplan for 2023, and 
other activities deemed essential for o perationalizing the mechanism;  
26. Requests the Supervisory Body to reinforce its support structure and allocate 
dedicated resources to support the work of the Supervisory Body;  
27. Also requests  the secretariat to take necessary steps to establish a separate trus t fund 
for the receipt of the shares of proceeds to cover administrative expenses charged as fees 
under the mechanism and other contributions;  
 
 6 See decision 3/CMA.3,  annex, chap . XI.A . 
 7 Supervisory Body document A6.4 -SB003 -A01. FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
36  28. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred  to in this decision;  
29. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
 37 Annex I  
Elaboration of the processes defined in the rules, modalities 
and procedures for the mechanism established by Article 6, 
paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreement  
I. Processes for implementing the transition of activities from 
the clean development mechanism to the mechanism 
established by Article 6, paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreement  
A. Crediting period  
1. Pursuant to paragraph 73 of the rules, modalities and procedures for t he mechanism 
established by Article 6, paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreement (RMPs),1 registered project 
activities under the clean development mechanism (CDM) may transition to the mechanism 
established by Article 6, paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreement (Ar ticle 6.4 mechanism) subject 
to the conditions referred to in paragraph 73 of the RMPs, including the requirements 
regarding the activity design elaborated in chapter I. B below , and if their crediting periods 
would have been active as of 1 January 2021 had  the crediting under the CDM continued 
after the end of the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol.  
2. The crediting period type (i.e. renewable or fixed) and the remaining number of 
renewals of the crediting period, if it is renewable, of CDM project  activities that transition 
to the Article 6.4 mechanism shall not change at the time of or after the transition.  
3. The current crediting period of CDM project activities that transition to the Article  6.4 
mechanism shall end, whichever is earlier:  
(a) When the current crediting period would have ended had the crediting period 
under the CDM continued after the end of the second commitment period of the Kyoto 
Protocol;  
(b) On 31 December 2025, if the crediting period is renewable;  
(c) On the date determined under the cond itions of the crediting period that may 
be specified by the respective host Parties in accordance with paragraph 27(b) of the RMPs.  
4. For CDM project activities with a renewable crediting period, once renewed under the 
Article 6.4 mechanism, the length of ea ch of the remaining crediting periods of the 
transitioned project activities shall be consistent with the relevant rules under the Article 6.4 
mechanism.  
5. The principles referred to in paragraphs 1 –4 above shall also apply to the CDM 
programmes of activities (PoAs) and the component project activities (CPAs) therein that 
transition to the Article 6.4 mechanism in terms of the PoA period and the crediting period 
of CPAs respectively.  
B. Activity design  
6. The activity types of registered CDM project activi ties and PoAs and the CPAs 
therein, as well as those in the requests for registration, renewal and issuance listed as 
provisional (provisional requests) under the temporary measures adopted by the Executive 
Board of the CDM at its 108th meeting (temporary measures), that transition to the Article 
6.4 mechanism (transitioning activities) shall be among those indicated by their respective 
host Parties in accordance with paragraph 26(e) of the RMPs.  
 
 1 Decision 3/CMA.3, annex.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
38  7. Pursuant to paragraph 73(c) of the RMPs, transitioning activi ties shall demonstrate 
compliance with the requirements of the RMPs in accordance with guidance to be provided 
by the Supervisory Body.  
8. The CDM methodologies applied to transitioning activities shall meet the 
methodological requirements that may be specified by the respective host Parties in 
accordance with paragraph 27(a) of the RMPs, taking into account the condition referred to 
in parag raph 73(d) of the RMPs. If the CDM methodologies do not meet these requirements, 
they shall be replaced accordingly.  
9. In the absence of an applicable mechanism methodology,  transitioning activities with 
a crediting period ending before 31 December 2025 may  apply interim solutions to be 
provided by the Supervisory Body with regard to the provision in paragraph 73(d) of the 
RMPs.  
10. Transitioning activities shall apply the same global warming potential values as 
applicable to any activities under Article 6 , para graph  4, of the Paris Agreement  (Article 6.4 
activities) in accordance with relevant decisions of the Conference of the Parties serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement (CMA).  
C. Transition process  
11. Pursuant to paragraph 73(a) of the RMPs, the project participants of a registered CDM 
project activity or the coordinating/managing entity of a registered CDM PoA that are 
approved by the CDM host Party, or an entity acting on their behalf, that wish to transition 
the activity to the Article 6.4 mechanism shall submit a request for such transition to the 
secretariat and to the designated national authority (DNA) for the Article 6.4 mechanism of 
the CDM host Party, as designated in accordance with paragraph 26(c) of the RMPs, 
informing the DNA for the CDM of the same Party by no later than 31 December 2023 in 
accordance with the procedure to be developed by the Supervisory Body.  
12. Pursuant to paragraph 73(b) of the RMPs, the DNA for the Article 6.4 mechanism of 
a CDM host Party, if it approves the tra nsition, shall provide the approval to the Supervisory 
Body by no later than 31 December 2025 in accordance with the procedure to be developed 
by the Supervisory Body.  
13. Requests for transition and host Party approvals of provisional requests under the 
tempo rary measures and other participating Party approvals of activity participants shall be 
submitted in accordance with paragraphs 11‒12 above, as applicable. Requests for transition 
of provisional requests for renewal and issuance under the temporary measure s shall be 
processed only after the respective underlying CDM activities have successfully transitioned 
to the Article 6.4 mechanism.  
14. Requests for transition of CDM activities and provisional requests under the 
temporary measures submitted to the secretari at shall be subject to the share of proceeds to 
cover administrative expenses and/or the share of proceeds to assist developing country 
Parties that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change to meet the 
costs of adaptation applic able under the Article 6.4 mechanism in the following manner:  
(a) Requests for transition of CDM activities are subject to the share of proceeds 
applicable to requests for registration under the Article 6.4 mechanism;  
(b) Provisional requests for registration unde r the temporary measures are subject 
to the share of proceeds applicable to requests for registration under the Article 6.4 
mechanism;  
(c) Provisional inclusion of CPAs under the temporary measures are subject to the 
share of proceeds applicable to inclusion o f CPAs in a registered PoA under the Article 6.4 
mechanism;  
(d) Provisional requests for renewal under the temporary measures are subject to 
the share of proceeds applicable to requests for renewal under the Article 6.4 mechanism;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
 39 (e) Provisional requests for issu ance under the temporary measures are subject to 
the share of proceeds applicable to requests for issuance under the Article 6.4 mechanism.  
15. For requests for transition of CDM activities and provisional requests under the 
temporary measures that are approve d by the Supervisory Body, the effective date of 
transition may be deemed as 1 January 2021 at the earliest, irrespective of the date of approval 
of the requests by the Supervisory Body.  
16. Once the transition is approved by the Supervisory Body, the activities and requests 
are subject to all relevant requirements under the Article 6.4 mechanism at all subsequent 
steps in the mechanism’s activity cycle, taking into account the provisions on the applied 
methodologies contained in paragraphs 27(a) and 73 (d) of the RMPs, as described in 
paragraphs 8‒9 above.  
17. The Supervisory Body shall effect the transition of CDM activities , noting that such 
CDM activities are deregistered from the CDM automatically from the date of transition 
pursuant to decision 2/CMP.16 , paragraph 12.  
II. Processes for implementing chapter XI.B (Use of certified 
emission reductions towards first or first updated nationally 
determined contributions) of the rules, modalities and 
procedures for the mechanism established by Article 6, 
paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreement  
A. Transfer of certified emission reductions from the clean development 
mechanism registry  
18. The transfer of certified emission reductions (CERs) to the mechanism registry 
referred to in chapter VI of the RMPs  that are eligible for suc h transfer as per paragraph 75 
of the RMPs (eligible CERs), when the transfer is initiated by the project participants or the 
Parties holding eligible CERs in the CDM registry or the Trustee of the Adaptation Fund in 
accordance with the modalities containe d in decision 2/CMP.17, shall be communicated by 
the CDM Registry Administrator to the mechanism registry administrator in accordance with 
the modalities contained in that decision and any other relevant guidance of the Conference 
of the Parties serving as  the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol. The transfer data 
shall include the full serial numbers of the eligible CERs and the identification of the 
receiving account. All transfer data shall be subject to a reconciliation process to be 
developed and implemented by the registry administrators of the two registries (the 
secretariat).  
19. The mechanism registry administrator shall check the transfer data received from the 
CDM registry and shall record transferred eligible CERs in the receiving accounts a s 
communicated by the CDM Registry Administrator. The mechanism registry shall assign 
unique identifiers to received CERs, as per the applicable rules for serialization of units in 
the mechanism registry to be developed by the Supervisory Body, and shall t rack, display 
and report on CERs as related to pre -2021 emission reductions pursuant to paragraph 75(b) 
of the RMPs. The mechanism registry shall also track the original Kyoto Protocol serial 
numbers of the received CERs.  
20. The mechanism registry may continu e to receive transfers of CERs from the CDM 
registry until a date to be determined by the CMA.  
21. Transactions of CERs shall adhere to the modalities in accordance with chapter IV 
below (Operation of the mechanism registry).  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
40  B. Use of certified emission reductio ns towards achievement of nationally 
determined contributions  
22. Parties may use CERs transferred to the mechanism registry towards achievement of 
their first or first updated nationally determined contributions (NDCs) by retiring the CERs 
in accordance with the modalities to be adopted by the CMA and/or the relevant requirements 
and procedures to be adopted by the Supervisory Body.  
23. For use of CERs towards achievement of their first or first updated NDCs, using 
Parties shall apply the guidance on the use of in ternationally transferred mitigation outcomes 
towards the achievement of NDCs mutatis mutandis by subtracting the quantity of CERs 
retired in the mechanism registry in the calculation of the emissions balance  in accordance 
with paragraphs 7‒8 of the annex to decision 2/CMA.3, noting that the host Party shall not 
be required to apply a corresponding adjustment as per paragraph 75(d) of the RMPs.  
24. Parties that use CERs towards achievement of their first or first updated NDCs shall:  
(a) Report for each year of the NDC implementation period the amounts of CERs 
used for that purpose in the row “Any other information consistent with decisions adopted 
by th e CMA on reporting under Article 6 (para. 77(d)(iii) of the MPGs)” of table 4 in annex  II 
to decision 5/CMA.3;  
(b) Include the relevant subtractions, determined in accordance with paragraph 23 
above, in the row “Total quantitative corresponding adjustments use d to calculate the 
emissions balance referred to in para. 23(k)(i), annex to decision 2/CMA.3, in accordance 
with the Party’s method for applying corresponding adjustments consistent with section III.B, 
annex to decision 2/CMA.3 (Application of correspondi ng adjustments) (para. 23(g), annex 
to decision 2/CMA.3)” of table 4 in annex II to decision 5/CMA.3.  
III. Reporting by host Parties on their Article 6, paragraph 4, 
activities and the Article 6, paragraph 4, emission reductions 
issued for those activities  
25. Host  Parties shall provide to the Supervisory Body the information referred to in 
paragraphs 26‒28 of the RMPs  relating to the participation responsibilities of host Parties in 
accordance with the modalities to be specified by the Supervisory Body. The Supervi sory 
Body shall promptly make the received information publicly available on the UNFCCC 
website. In this context:  
(a) The information on the status as a Party under the Paris Agreement referred to 
in paragraph 26(a) of the RMPs is deemed to have been provided if the instruments of 
ratification, acceptance, approval or accession have been deposited with the Depositary in 
accordance with Article 20 of the Paris Agreement;  
(b) The information on the preparation, communication and maintenance of NDCs 
referred to in par agraphs 26(b) and 28(a) of the RMPs is deemed to have been provided if it 
has been communicated to the secretariat in accordance with Article 4, paragraph 2, of the 
Paris Agreement and is still valid.  
26. Pursuant to paragraphs 40, 41 and 45 of the RMPs, host Parties and other participating 
Parties shall provide to the Supervisory Body the information referred to in these paragraphs 
relating to the approval of specific activities by a host Party, authorization of specific activity 
participants by a host Party a nd authorization of activity participants by another participating 
Party respectively, in accordance with the modalities to be specified by the Supervisory 
Body.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
 41 IV. Operation of the mechanism registry  
A. Form and functions  
27. Pursuant to paragraphs 64 –65 of the RMP s, the mechanism registry shall:  
(a) Take the form of a standardized electronic database and shall track Article 6, 
paragraph 4, emission reductions (A6.4ERs) and CERs transferred to the mechanism registry 
pursuant to paragraph 75 of the RMPs;  
(b) Be consistent wi th the requirements for registries contained in the guidance on 
cooperative approaches referred to in Article 6, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement and 
further relevant decisions of the CMA;  
(c) Be hosted and maintained by the secretariat.   
28. The mechanism registry shall track A6.4ERs and CERs transferred to the mechanism 
registry pursuant to paragraph 75 of the RMPs as units. Each unit shall be indivisible and 
transactions in the mechanism registry may only involve full  units . 
29. The mechanism regist ry shall track : 
(a) A6.4ERs authorized for use towards achievement of NDCs and/or for other 
international mitigation purposes pursuant to paragraph 42 of the RMPs (authorized 
A6.4ERs);  
(b) A6.4ERs not specified as authorized for use towards achievement of NDCs 
and/or for other international mitigation purposes (mitigation contribution A6.4ERs), which 
may be used, inter alia, for results -based climate finance, domestic mitigation pricing 
schemes or domestic price -based measures, for the purpose of contributing to th e reduction 
of emission levels in the host Party.  
30. Each A6.4ER or CER tracked in the mechanism registry shall have a unique identifier 
assigned in accordance with the modalities to be developed by the Supervisory Body and 
consistently with the guidance adop ted by the CMA for registries under cooperative 
approaches referred to in Article 6, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement.  
31. Each A6.4ER or CER shall be held in only one account in the mechanism registry at 
a time.  
32. Pursuant to paragraph 63 of the RMPs, the me chanism registry shall have at a 
minimum the following account types, to be opened in accordance with the requirements and 
procedures to be adopted by the Supervisory Body:  
(a) Pending account, to which all A6.4ERs shall be issued;  
(b) Holding account, which may a cquire A6.4ERs or CERs tracked in the 
mechanism registry;  
(c) Share of proceeds for adaptation account, which receives A6.4ERs in 
accordance with paragraph 58 of the RMPs;  
(d) Account for mandatory cancellation of A6.4ERs for overall mitigation in 
global emissions  (OMGE) in accordance with paragraph 59 of the RMPs (mandatory 
cancellation for OMGE account);  
(e) Account for voluntary cancellation of A6.4ERs for OMGE in accordance with 
paragraph 70 of the RMPs (voluntary cancellation for OMGE account);  
(f) Retirement account  for A6.4ERs and CERs;   
(g) Account for cancellation of A6.4ERs for other international mitigation 
purposes;  
(h) Account for voluntary cancellation of A6.4ERs for other purposes;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
42  (i) Account for administrative cancellation of A6.4ERs and CERs tracked  in the 
mechanism registry for corrective actions and other purposes, as necessary.  
33. Pursuant to paragraph 63 of the RMPs, Parties and entities authorized by a 
participating Party as activity participants may request to open holding accounts in the 
mechanis m registry in accordance with the requirements and procedures to be adopted by the 
Supervisory Body. The opening of such an account shall be approved by the participating 
Party that authorized participation. Such holding accounts shall be associated with t he Party 
that authorized participation.  
34. Pursuant to paragraph 55 of the RMPs, the mechanism registry shall allow account 
holders to see the authorization status and the first transfer status of A6.4ERs held in their 
holding accounts. The mechanism registry  shall also allow account holders to see if a 
transaction is the first transfer in the transaction history of their accounts.  
B. Transaction procedure  
35. The mechanism registry shall perform issuance, forwarding, first transfer, transfer, 
cancellation, voluntary  cancellation and retirement of A6.4ERs or, where applicable, of 
CERs transferred to the mechanism registry in accordance with paragraph 75 of the RMPs.   
36. A transaction that meets the definition of first transfer pursuant to paragraph 2 of the 
annex to deci sion 2/CMA.3 and relevant decisions of the CMA  shall be distinguished as a 
first transfer in the mechanism registry.  
37. Pursuant to paragraph 54 of the RMPs, upon being instructed by the Supervisory 
Body, the mechanism registry administrator shall issue all a uthorized A6.4ERs and 
mitigation contribution  A6.4ERs into the pending account.  
38. Pursuant to paragraph 55 of the RMPs, the mechanism registry administrator shall, at 
the time of the issuance of A6.4ERs, assign their authorization status in accordance with the 
statement by the host Party provided to the Supervisory Body pursuant to paragraph 42 of 
the RMPs.  
39. Pursuant to paragraph 58 of the RMPs, the mechanism registry administrator shall 
forward 5 per cent of issued authorized A6.4ERs and miti gation contribution  A6.4ERs in the 
pending account immediately to the share of proceeds for adaptation account held by the 
Adaptation Fund and, if the issued A6.4ERs are authorized, shall distinguish the forwarding 
as effecting a first transfer. This first  transfer shall be subject to a corresponding adjustment.   
40. Pursuant to paragraphs 59 and 69 of the RMPs, the mechanism registry administrator 
shall cancel a minimum of 2 per cent of issued authorized A6.4ERs and mitigation 
contribution  A6.4ERs in the pendi ng account immediately up to the mandatory cancellation 
for OMGE account, and if the issued A6.4ERs are authorized, shall distinguish the 
cancellation as a first transfer. This first transfer shall be subject to a corresponding 
adjustment.   
41. Pursuant to par agraph 60 of the RMPs, the mechanism registry administrator shall 
forward or effect a first transfer of, as applicable, the remaining A6.4ERs to the holding 
accounts of activity participants and participating Parties involved, in accordance with the 
instru ctions of the activity participants.  
42. Account holders may request transfer, cancellation or voluntary cancellation of 
A6.4ERs or CERs held in their holding accounts in accordance with relevant requirements 
and procedures to be adopted by the Supervisory Bod y. 
43. Account holders may acquire A6.4ERs or CERs in the mechanism registry in their 
holding accounts in accordance with relevant requirements and procedures to be adopted by 
the Supervisory Body.  
44. Each participating Party may request to open a retirement acco unt, as needed. A 
retirement account may acquire A6.4ERs authorized  for use towards achievement of NDCs 
or CERs in the mechanism registry only from accounts associated with the participating Party 
for which the retirement account was opened.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
 43 45. A6.4ERs or CE Rs transferred to any cancellation account or retirement account shall 
not be further transferred.  
C. Information  
46. The mechanism registry shall enable, for each participating Party, the automatic 
prefilling of the agreed electronic format and of other quantita tive information requirements 
pursuant to chapter IV (Reporting) of the annex to decision 2/CMA.3 in relation to authorized 
A6.4ERs and the creation of records of internationally transferred mitigation outcomes in the 
accounts of the international registry  so as to enable tracking pursuant to chapter VI.A 
(Tracking) of the annex to decision 2/CMA.3.  
47. The mechanism registry shall enable the production and dissemination of reports to 
the DNAs of Parties participating in the Article 6.4 mechanism on the holding s and 
transaction history in relation to accounts and transactions associated with the respective 
Party.  
48. The mechanism registry shall make non -confidential information publicly available 
and provide a publicly accessible interface through the Internet.  
D. Connection with the international registry  
49. Pursuant to paragraph 63 of the RMPs, the mechanism registry shall be connected to 
the international registry. The connection shall allow for automated pulling and viewing of 
data and information on holdings and the action history of authorized A6.4ERs for use by 
participating Parties that have an account in the international registry.  
V. Processes necessary for implementing the share of proceeds 
to cover administrative expenses and the share of proceeds to 
assist developing country Parties that are particularly 
vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change to meet 
the costs of adaptation  
A. Share of proceeds for administrative expenses  
50. The share of proceeds to cover administrative expenses shall comprise:   
(a) A fee charged for a request for registration of an Article 6.4 activity (the 
registration fee);  
(b) A fee charged for inclusion of CPAs in a registered PoA (the inclusion fee);  
(c) A fee charged for a request for issuance of A6.4ERs for a registered Art icle 
6.4 activity (the issuance fee);   
(d) A fee charged for a request for renewal of crediting period or PoA period for a 
registered project activity under Article 6, paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreement  and PoA , 
respectively, and for renewal of CPAs included in a registered PoA (the renewal fee);  
(e) A fee charged for a request for approval of a post -registration change for a 
registered Article 6.4 activity (the post -registration change fee).  
51. The registration fee shall be multi -tiered fixed rates for stand -alone a ctivities, tiered 
by the estimated annual average emission reductions or removals over the first crediting 
period, if it is renewable, or over the entire crediting period, if it is fixed, and a fixed rate for 
PoAs set at the following levels, and shall be deemed to be fully consumed for processing 
the request  and not deemed an advance payment of the issuance fee referred to in paragraph 
53 below : FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
44  (a) A maximum of USD 2,000 for an activity achieving annual average emission 
reductions or removals over the (first)  crediting period of up to 15,000 tonnes of carbon 
dioxide equivalent (t CO 2 eq); 
(b) A maximum of USD 6,000 for an activity achieving annual average emission 
reductions or removals over the (first) crediting period of between 15,001 and 50,000 t CO 2 eq; 
(c) A max imum of USD 12,000 for an activity achieving annual average emission 
reductions or removals over the (first) crediting period of over 50,000 t CO 2 eq or for a PoA.  
52. The inclusion fee shall be a maximum of USD 1,000 per inclusion.  
53. The issuance fee shall be a  proportional levy to the amount of A6.4ERs requested for 
issuance, set at a maximum of USD 0.20 per A6.4ER requested for issuance.  
54. The renewal fee shall be at the same level as the registration fee applicable to the 
activity based on its scale of emission  reductions or removals or inclusion fee, as applicable.  
55. The post -registration change fee shall be a fixed rate, set at a maximum of USD 2,000 
per request. If the proposed change increases the scale of the activity to bring the scale to a 
higher tier of th e fee structure, the difference from the paid registration fee shall be payable 
in addition to the fixed -rate post -registration change fee.  
56. All the fees referred to in paragraphs 50 –55 above shall be paid at the time of 
submission of the respective request s. The initiation of processing of a request shall be 
subject to the payment of the fee.  
57. The paid fees may be reimbursed partially or in full under certain conditions, to be 
specified by the Supervisory Body.  
58. All the fees referred to in paragraphs 50 –55 above shall be waived for activities in the 
least developed countries and small island developing States.  
59. The Supervisory Body may adjust and implement the fee structure and levels within 
the boundary to be set by the CMA, on the basis of the guiding principles of balancing the 
income and the expenditure, enabling long -term sound operation of the Article 6.4 
mechanism, being fair to activity participants, ensuring administrative efficiency and 
providing predictability to activity participan ts and the Supervisory Body.  
B. Share of proceeds for adaptation  
60. The Adaptation Fund Board and its support structure shall develop and implement a 
strategy on monetizing A6.4ERs in the share of proceeds for adaptation account held by the 
Adaptation Fund in th e mechanism registry, and inform the state of monetization annually to 
the CMA.  
61. Pursuant to paragraph 67(b) of the RMPs, the secretariat shall transfer the monetary 
contributions from individual Article 6.4 activities as set by the Supervisory Body to the 
Adaptation Fund annually.  
62. Pursuant to paragraph 67(c) of the RMPs, the Supervisory Body shall review annually 
the state of the remaining funds as a result of the income from the fees referred to in 
paragraphs 50 –55 above and the expenditure for operati ng the Article 6.4 mechanism, decide 
the timing and the amount of funds to be transferred to the Adaptation Fund after setting 
aside the operational reserve for at least three years based on the projection of surplus of 
funds, implement the transfer accord ingly and report to the CMA on the state of the transfer 
annually.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
 45 VI. Processes necessary for delivering overall mitigation in global 
emissions  
63. Mandatory cancellations of A6.4ERs for the delivery of OMGE referred to in 
paragraph 59 of the RMPs shall apply to A6.4ERs, in accordance with chapter IV.B above 
(Transaction procedure).  
64. Pursuant to paragraph 69(a) of the RMPs, activity participants may request mandatory 
cancellations for OMGE in addition to the mandatory cancellation of a minimum of 2 per  cent 
of iss ued A6.4ERs as part of their activity documentation by indicating such increase in their 
request for issuance of A6.4ERs in accordance with the procedures to be developed by the 
Supervisory Body.  
65. Pursuant to paragraph 70 of the RMPs, Parties, activity part icipants and stakeholders 
may request voluntary cancellation of A6.4ERs in the mechanism registry for the purpose of 
delivering further OMGE that has been correspondingly adjusted in accordance with chapter 
III.B (Application of corresponding adjustments) of the annex to decision 2/CMA.3, in 
accordance with the procedures to be developed by the Supervisory Body.  
66. Public availability of information pertaining to mandatory and voluntary cancellations 
for OMGE, linkages and information exchange with the Article  6 database referred to in the 
annex to decision 2/CMA.3 and the mechanism registry shall be in accordance with the 
modalities for the Article 6 database and the mechanism registry respectively.  
67. The Supervisory Body shall provide, in its annual reports to the CMA, information on 
aggregated amounts that were cancelled for OMGE together with any relevant qualitative 
information, distinguishing between mandatory and voluntary cancellations for OMGE.  FCCC/ PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
46  Annex II  
Rules of procedure of the Supervisory Body for the 
mechanism established by Article 6, paragraph 4, of the Paris 
Agreement  
I. Scope  
1. These rules of procedure shall apply to all activities of the Supervisory Body for the 
mechanism established by Article 6, paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreement (Article 6.4 
mechanism) undertaken in accordance with decision 3/CMA.3, including the rules, 
modalities and procedures for the m echanism contained in the annex thereto, and any other 
decisions on the mechanism adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement (CMA).  
II. Definitions  
2. For the purpose of these rules of procedure:  
(a) “Conflic t of interest” refers to any current professional, financial or other 
interest that could significantly impair the individual’s objectivity in carrying out their duties 
and responsibilities for the Supervisory Body or create an unfair advantage for any per son or 
organization; circumstances that could lead a reasonable person to question an individual’s 
objectivity or whether an unfair advantage has been created constitute a potential conflict of 
interest;  
(b) “Secretariat” means the secretariat referred to in A rticle 17 of the Paris 
Agreement and paragraph  25 of the rules, modalities and procedures for the Article 6.4 
mechanism;  
(c) “Stakeholders” mean the entities, groups, forums, communities and 
individuals that have a role in the implementation of the functions o f the Supervisory Body 
or that may affect or be directly affected by the recommendations and actions of the Body.  
III. Membership  
A. Composition  
3. The Supervisory Body shall comprise 12 members from Parties to the Paris 
Agreement, ensuring broad and equitable geogra phical representation and striving to ensure 
gender -balanced representation, as follows:  
(a) Two members from each of the five United Nations regional groups;  
(b) One member from the least developed countries;  
(c) One member from small island developing States (decisi on 3/CMA.3, annex, 
para.  4). 
B. Nomination and election  
4. The CMA shall elect members and an alternate for each member of the Supervisory 
Body on the basis of nominations by the respective groups and constituencies (decision 
3/CMA.3, annex, para.  5).  
5. The nomin ation by a group or constituency of a candidate member shall be 
accompanied by a nomination for a candidate alternate member from the same group or 
constituency.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
 47 6. Members and alternate members shall serve in their individual expert capacity 
(decision 3/CMA. 3, annex, para.  6). 
7. Members and alternate members shall act in an independent and impartial manner in 
performing their duties in the Supervisory Body.  
8. Members and alternate members shall possess relevant scientific, technical, 
socioeconomic or legal expert ise (decision 3/CMA.3, annex, para.  7). 
9. In the absence of a member from a meeting of the Supervisory Body, their alternate 
shall serve as the member for that meeting.  
10. If a member is not available for a period for their duties in between meetings, they 
may delegate their role as member to their alternate for a specified period by informing the 
Supervisory Body and the secretariat in advance.  
11. Any reference in these rules of procedure to a member shall be deemed to include 
their alternate when such alternate acts for the member.  
12. Participation costs for members and alternate members will be covered by the share 
of proceeds for administrative expenses (decision 3/CMA.3, annex, para.  14). 
13. Funding for participation shall be provided in accordance with the financia l 
regulations of the United Nations and the financial procedures of the UNFCCC.  
C. Term of membership  
14. Members and alternate members shall serve for a term of two years (decision 
3/CMA.3, annex, para.  8). 
15. Notwithstanding paragraph 14 above, in the first election of members and alternate 
members, the CMA shall elect half of the members and their alternate members for a term of 
three years and the other half for a term of two years. At the expiry of the term of these 
members and their alternate members and thereafter, the CMA shall elect replacement 
members and their alternate members for a term of two years. The members and their 
alternate members shall remain in office until their successors have been elected (decision 
3/CMA.3, annex, para.  9). 
16. The term of  service of a member shall start at the first meeting of the Supervisory 
Body in the calendar year following their election and shall end immediately before the first 
meeting of the Supervisory Body in the calendar year in which the term ends (decision 
3/CMA.3, annex, para.  10). 
17. The maximum number of terms of any individual shall be two terms, whether 
consecutive or not and including any period as an alternate member (decision 3/CMA.3, 
annex, para.  11). 
D. Resignation, suspension and termination of membership  
18. If a member or alternate member resigns or is otherwise unable to continue as a 
member or alternate member, the Supervisory Body may decide, bearing in mind the 
proximity to the next session of the CMA, to appoint a replacement member or replacement 
altern ate member from the same constituency to serve the remainder of the term on the basis 
of a nomination from the relevant constituency, in which case the appointment shall count as 
one term (decision 3/CMA.3, annex, para.  12). 
19. The Supervisory Body shall requ est the relevant group or constituency to nominate 
the new member, or the new alternate member, to be appointed in accordance with 
paragraph  18 above.  
20. Members and alternate members may be suspended, or their membership terminated 
by the CMA, if:  FCCC/ PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
48  (a) They fail to comply with paragraph  25 below or the oath of service referred to 
in paragraph 30 below;  
(b) They fail to attend two consecutive meetings without proper justification 
(decision 3/CMA.3, annex, para.  13). 
21. The Supervisory Body may suspend the membership of a particular member or 
alternate member and recommend to the CMA the termination of their membership for any 
of the reasons listed in paragraph 20 above or for failing to comply with the provisions in 
chapter IV below.  
22. Any motion calling for the suspension o f, and recommendation to the CMA to 
terminate, the membership of a member or alternate member shall immediately be considered 
in accordance with chapter VII below. When such a motion and recommendation concern 
the Chair, the Vice -Chair shall act as Chair u ntil the decision on the motion has been 
announced.  
23. The Supervisory Body shall suspend and recommend termination of the membership 
of a member or alternate member only after the member or alternate member has been 
afforded the opportunity of a hearing by t he Supervisory Body.  
IV. Duties and conduct  
24. Members and alternate members shall be bound by these rules of procedure.  
A. Code of conduct  
25. Members and alternate members shall perform any duties and exercise any authority 
in an honourable, independent, impartial and  conscientious manner as follows:  
(a) They shall observe at all times and from the date of their election the highest 
standards of ethical conduct in the performance of their duties and functions as outlined 
below. Such duties and functions shall be performed  in accordance with the Charter of the 
United Nations and these rules of procedure;  
(b) They shall treat all persons involved in the meetings and processes of the 
Supervisory Body with dignity and respect and conduct themselves in line with the values of 
the U nited Nations;  
(c) They shall not abuse their authority or directly or indirectly accept, offer or 
provide any gift, advantage or reward that can be reasonably perceived as intended to 
influence the performance of their functions and their independence;  
(d) They s hall not engage in any form of discrimination or harassment, including 
sexual harassment.  
B. Conflict of interest  
26. Members and alternate members shall avoid actual, potential and perceived conflicts 
of interest and shall:  
(a) Declare any actual, potential or perceived conflict of interest at the start of a 
meeting;  
(b) Refrain from participating in any work of the Supervisory Body, including 
decision -making, in relation to which they have an actual, potential or perceived conflict of 
interest;  
(c) Refrain from behaviour that may be incompatible with the requirements of 
independence and impartiality (decision 3/CMA.3, annex, para. 15).  
27. Members and alternate members shall have no pecuniary or financial interest in any 
aspect of the Articl e 6.4 mechanism activity, any designated operational entity or any matters FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
 49 considered by the Supervisory Body. The Supervisory Body shall take measures to mitigate 
the risk thereof, such as developing provisions for financial disclosure by members and 
alternate members.  
28. Members and alternate members shall make available their curricula vitae and details 
of any past and current professional affiliations with the secretariat for publication on the 
UNFCCC website and shall inform the secretariat of any change s thereto.  
C. Confidentiality  
29. Members and alternate members shall ensure confidentiality in line with relevant best 
practice and decisions of the CMA and the Supervisory Body (decision 3/CMA.3, annex, 
para. 16).  
D. Oath of service  
30. Members and alternate members s hall take a written oath of service witnessed by the 
Executive Secretary of the UNFCCC or an authorized representative before assuming their 
duties. The text of the written oath of service is contained in the appendix.  
31. Electronic submission of the signed o ath of service by members and alternate 
members is sufficient to fulfil the requirements of these rules of procedure.  
V. Chair and Vice -Chair  
32. Each year the Supervisory Body shall elect a Chair and a Vice -Chair from among its 
members. The Chair and the Vice -Chair shall remain in office until their successors have 
been elected (decision 3/CMA.3, annex, para.  18). In this context, the Supervisory Body shall 
take fully into account the consideration of regional and gender balance.  
33. The secretary of the Supervisory Body shall preside over the opening of the first 
meeting of a calendar year and conduct the election of the new Chair and Vice -Chair.  
34. If the elected Chair is not able to serve in that capacity at a meeting, the Vice -Chair 
shall serve as Chair. If neither i s able to serve in their respective capacity, the Supervisory 
Body shall elect a member from among those present to serve as Chair for that meeting.  
35. If the Chair or the Vice -Chair is unable to complete their term of office, the 
Supervisory Body shall elect  a new Chair or Vice -Chair from among its members for the 
remainder of the term.  
36. In addition to exercising the functions conferred upon the Chair elsewhere in these 
rules of procedure, the Chair shall declare the opening and closing of meetings, preside ov er 
meetings, ensure the observance of these rules of procedure, give the right to speak, put 
questions to a vote and announce decisions. The Chair shall rule on points of order and, 
subject to these rules of procedure, have complete control over the procee dings and 
maintenance of order at meetings.  
37. The Chair may propose to the Supervisory Body a limitation on allowed speaking 
time and the number of times each member or alternate member may speak on a question, 
the adjournment or closure of the debate or the  suspension or adjournment of a meeting.  
38. The Chair, the Vice -Chair or any other member or alternate member designated by 
the Supervisory Body shall represent the Body as necessary, including to report to the CMA 
at its sessions and to manage the public com munications of the Supervisory Body, including 
with stakeholders.  FCCC/ PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
50  VI. Meetings  
A. Dates and location  
39. The Supervisory Body shall meet with the frequency and at the times and locations 
agreed by it, taking into account the need for efficient use of resources and pr oximity to the 
dates of sessions of the UNFCCC governing and subsidiary bodies.  
40. The meetings of the Supervisory Body shall take place in the country of the seat of 
the secretariat unless otherwise decided by the Body and subject to the necessary 
arrangemen ts being made by the secretariat in consultation with the Chair.  
41. At the first Supervisory Body meeting of each calendar year, the Chair shall propose 
for the approval of the Body a schedule of meetings for that calendar year.  
42. If changes to the schedule or  additional meetings are required, the Chair shall, after 
consultation with all members, give notice of any changes to the dates of scheduled meetings 
and the dates of any additional meetings.  
43. The secretariat, in consultation with the Chair, shall give not ice of the dates of each 
meeting of the Supervisory Body not less than eight weeks prior to the meeting.  
44. Members and alternate members may participate in meetings in person or virtually. 
Both means of participation shall confer the same rights and responsibilities at meetings.  
45. If all members and alternate members participate in a meeting virtually, any decisions 
taken by the Supervisory Body shall be deemed to have been taken at the seat of the 
secretariat in Bonn.  
B. Quorum  
46. At least three fourths of t he members, including alternate members only when they 
are acting as members, shall constitute a quorum for meetings of the Supervisory Body 
(decision 3/CMA.3, annex, para.  17). 
47. The virtual participation of a member or alternate member acting as a member i n a 
meeting counts towards a quorum for the meeting.  
C. Agenda and documentation for meetings  
48. Additions or changes to the provisional agenda for a meeting may be proposed to the 
secretariat by any member or alternate member and incorporated into the proposed agenda, 
provided that the member or alternate member gives notice thereof to the secretariat not less 
than four weeks before the meeting. The proposed  agenda for the meeting shall be transmitted 
by the secretariat to all those invited to the meeting three weeks before the meeting.  
49. The Supervisory Body shall, at the beginning of each meeting, adopt the agenda for 
the meeting.  
50. Any item on the agenda for a meeting of the Supervisory Body, the consideration of 
which has not been completed at that meeting, shall  be included automatically in the 
provisional agenda for the next meeting, unless otherwise decided by the Supervisory Body.  
51. All documentation for a meeting of the Supervisory Body shall be made available to 
members and alternate members by the secretariat  at least two weeks before the meeting 
unless otherwise decided by the Chair.  
52. The Supervisory Body shall receive public comments, including from stakeholders, 
on meeting documentation up until one week prior to the meeting, unless otherwise decided 
by the Chair.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
 51 D. Transparency  
53. Meetings of the Supervisory Body shall be open to the public, including via electronic 
means, and a recording shall be made available via electronic means unless closed for reasons 
of confidentiality (decision 3/CMA.3, annex, para.  19). 
54. Documents for meetings of the Supervisory Body shall be made publicly available, 
unless they are confidential (decision 3/CMA.3, annex, para.  20). 
55. The Supervisory Body shall ensure transparency of decision -making and make 
publicly available its decision -making framework and decisions, including standards, 
procedures and related documents (decision 3/CMA.3, annex, para.  21). 
E. Participation of observers in meetings  
56. Meetings of the Supervisory Body shall be open to attendance, as observers, by any 
Party or UNF CCC -admitted observer organization unless closed for reasons of 
confidentiality.  
57. The Supervisory Body may, in the interests of economy and efficiency, decide to limit 
the in -person attendance of observers at its meetings.  
58. Observers may, upon invitation by the Supervisory Body, make presentations relating 
to matters under consideration by the Supervisory Body at its meetings.  
59. The Supervisory Body may invite specific stakeholders to a meeting to seek their 
views on specific items on the agenda for the meeting . 
F. Record of meetings  
60. The Supervisory Body shall adopt reports on its meetings and make them publicly 
available (decision 3/CMA.3, annex, para.  23). The reports may reflect divergent views 
expressed by members and alternate members on the matters considered  at the meetings.  
61. The Supervisory Body may, separately from the reports referred to in paragraph 60 
above, prepare internal reports containing confidential information relating to the outcomes 
of its meetings.  
62. Before the end of each meeting, the Chair sha ll present draft conclusions and decisions 
taken at the meeting for consideration and approval by the Supervisory Body. Any written 
records of the Supervisory Body or recordings of proceedings shall be kept by the secretariat 
in accordance with United Nati ons rules and regulations.  
VII. Decision -making  
A. General  
63. Decisions of the Supervisory Body shall be taken by consensus whenever possible. If 
all efforts at reaching consensus have been exhausted, decisions shall be put to vote and 
adopted by a majority of three fourths of the members, including alternate members only 
when they are acting as members, present and voting (decision 3/CMA.3, annex, para.  22). 
64. Alternate members shall participate in all the proceedings of meetings of the 
Supervisory Body except fo r the voting referred to in paragraph 66 below.  
65. The Chair shall ascertain, in their judgment, whether consensus has been reached. The 
Chair shall declare that consensus has not been reached if there is a stated objection by a 
member, or by an alternate me mber acting as a member, to the proposed decision under 
consideration.  FCCC/ PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
52  66. If all efforts at reaching consensus have been exhausted, as a last resort the following 
voting procedures shall apply:  
(a) The Chair shall announce that the matter will be put to vote and  provide a draft 
decision;  
(b) Each member shall have one vote;  
(c) The phrase “members present and voting” means members present at the 
meeting at which the voting takes place and casting an affirmative or negative vote;  
(d) Members abstaining from voting shall be c onsidered as not voting for the 
purpose of determining the three -fourths majority;  
(e) An alternate member may cast a vote only if acting as a member;  
(f) The Chair and the Vice -Chair shall retain their right to vote.  
B. Electronic decision -making  
67. The Supervisory Body may, in writing using electronic means, take decisions between 
meetings. The following electronic decision -making rules shall apply:  
(a) Whenever, in the judgment of the Chair, a decision must be taken by the 
Supervisory Body that cannot be po stponed until its next meeting, the Chair shall transmit to 
each member a proposed decision with an invitation to approve it by consensus.  Together 
with the proposed decision, the Chair shall provide, subject to the applicable confidentiality 
requirements,  the relevant facts that, in the Chair’s judgment, justify the decision -making by 
electronic means and the proposed decision;  
(b) The proposed decision shall be transmitted in the form of an electronic written 
message to all members of the Supervisory Body. A  quorum of the Supervisory Body is 
required through confirmation of receipt of the message. Such message shall also be 
transmitted to alternate members for information;  
(c) Members shall be given two weeks from the date of receipt of the proposed 
decision to p rovide comments. Alternate members may also provide comments, recognizing 
that they do not have the right to vote. The comments shall be made available in the form of 
an electronic written message to all members and alternate members;  
(d) At the expiration of the period referred to in paragraph 67(c) above, the 
proposed decision shall be considered approved if there is no objection by any member. If an 
objection is raised, the Chair shall include consideration of the proposed decision as an item 
in the proposed  agenda for the next meeting of the Supervisory Body and inform the Body 
accordingly.  
68. Any decision made via the procedure specified in paragraph 67 above shall be 
included in the report on the Supervisory Body’s next meeting and shall be deemed to have 
been taken at the seat of the secretariat.  
69. The Supervisory Body may decide to use different processes for decision -making on 
specific cases in accordance with relevant procedures adopted by the Body for the activity 
cycle, accreditation, methodology developme nt and other specific processes for efficiency in 
operating the Article 6.4 mechanism.  
VIII.  Expert groups  
70. The Supervisory Body may establish expert groups comprising internal or external 
experts, such as committees, panels, working groups and/or rosters of exp erts, as required, to 
assist it in performing its functions and achieving its objectives. The Supervisory Body may 
draw on the expertise necessary to perform its functions, including from the UNFCCC roster 
of experts. In this context, it shall take fully i nto account the consideration of regional and 
gender balance.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
 53 IX. Secretariat  
71. Pursuant to Article 17 of the Paris Agreement and in accordance with relevant 
decisions of the CMA, the secretariat shall serve as the secretariat of the Supervisory Body 
and perfor m its functions in the operation of the mechanism in accordance with the rules, 
modalities and procedures for the mechanism (decision 3/CMA.3, annex, para.  25). 
72. The Executive Secretary of the UNFCCC shall arrange for the provision of its staff 
and services  required for the servicing of the Supervisory Body from within available 
resources. The Executive Secretary shall manage and direct such staff and services and 
provide appropriate support and advice to the Supervisory Body.  
73. An official of the secretariat designated by the Executive Secretary shall serve as the 
secretary of the Supervisory Body.  
74. In addition to the functions specified in the rules, modalities and procedures for the 
mechanism and/or any subsequent decision of the CMA, the secretar iat shall, in accordance 
with these rules of procedure and subject to the availability of resources:  
(a) Make necessary arrangements for meetings of the Supervisory Body, including 
announcing meetings, issuing invitations and making available documents for the  meetings, 
including but not limited to receiving, reproducing and distributing the documents to 
members and alternate members;  
(b) Maintain meeting records and arrange for the storage and preservation of 
meeting documents and make them publicly available subj ect to confidentiality provisions;  
(c) Maintain a public web -based system containing all decisions, regulatory 
documents and any other relevant documents adopted by the Supervisory Body subject to 
confidentiality provisions;  
(d) Perform all other functions that t he Supervisory Body may require or that the 
CMA may mandate with respect to the work of the Body.  
75. The rules, regulations, policies and procedures of the secretariat and the United 
Nations, as applicable, shall apply to all functions performed by the secret ariat pursuant to 
these rules of procedure. In the event of any conflict between such rules, regulations, policies 
and procedures and these rules of the procedure, the former shall apply.  
X. Working language  
76. The working language of the Supervisory Body shall be English.  
77. Documents for meetings of the Supervisory Body shall be provided in English only.  
XI. Amendments to these rules of procedure  
78. The Supervisory Body may recommend amendments to these rules of procedure for 
consideration and adoption by the CMA.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
54  Appendix  
  Written oath of service  
The written oath of service shall read as follows:  
“I solemnly declare that I shall perform my duties as a member or alternate member 
of the Supervisory Body for the mechanism established by Article 6, paragraph 4, of 
the Paris Agreement honourably, faithfully, impartially and conscientiously.  
I further solemnly declare and promise that I shall have no financial interest in any 
aspect of the mechanism, including accreditation of operational entities, registration 
of activities under the mechanism and/or issuance of Article 6, paragraph 4, emission 
reductions. Subject to my responsibilities to the Supervisory Body, I shall not disclose, 
even after the termination of my functions, any confidential or proprietary information 
that is transferred to the Supervisory Body in accordance with the rules, moda lities 
and procedures for the mechanism, or any other confidential information coming to 
my knowledge by reason of my duties for the Supervisory Body.  
I shall disclose to the Executive Secretary of the UNFCCC and to the Supervisory 
Body any interest in any  matter under discussion by the Supervisory Body that may 
constitute an actual, potential or perceived conflict of interest or might be 
incompatible with the requirements of integrity and impartiality expected of a member 
or alternate member of the Supervi sory Body, and I shall refrain from participating in 
any work of the Supervisory Body, including decision -making, in relation to such 
matter.  
I shall act in an independent and impartial manner in performing my duties in the 
Supervisory Body.  
As a member or  alternate member of the Supervisory Body, I will, specifically:  
(a) Discharge my duties with honesty, integrity and full regard for my 
responsibilities as a member or alternate member of the Supervisory Body;  
(b) Respect the confidentiality of all confidential i nformation acquired in my 
position as a member or alternate member of the Supervisory Body and not make 
improper use of or disclose such confidential information to third parties;  
(c) Observe the principles of independence and integrity in dealings with other 
members and alternate members of the Supervisory Body, the UNFCCC secretariat 
and stakeholders;  
(d) Exercise a conservative approach to deciding whether I have an actual, 
potential or perceived conflict of interest with respect to any matter under 
consideratio n by the Supervisory Body and take appropriate action, which may 
include remaining silent and/or leaving the room during deliberations and decisions 
of the Supervisory Body;  
(e) Disclose to the Supervisory Body any actual, potential or perceived conflict of 
interest of a direct or indirect nature of which I am aware and which I believe could 
compromise in any way the reputation or performance of the Supervisory Body;  
(f) Make available to the Executive Secretary of the UNFCCC my curriculum 
vitae and details of pas t and current professional affiliations and inform the Executive 
Secretary of any changes thereto.  
I shall abide by the code of conduct referred to in paragraph 25 of the rules of 
procedure of the Supervisory Body .” 
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
 55 Decision 8/CMA.4  
Matters relating to the work programme under the 
framework for non -market approaches referred to in 
Article  6, paragraph 8, of the Paris Agreement  
 The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
 Recalling  decision 4/CMA.3 and the Paris Agreement,  
 Noting with appreciation  the contributions received from Parties and observers in 
support of implementing the framework for non -market approaches referred to in Article 6, 
paragraph 8, of the Paris Agreement,  
1. Welcomes  the report1 of the Glasgow Committee on Non -market Approaches  that 
includes progress in and recommendations for implementing the work programme under the 
framework for non -market approaches referred to in Article  6, paragraph 8, of the Paris 
Agreement and in decision 4/CMA.3;  
I. Schedule for implementing the work progr amme activities  
2. Adopts  the schedule for implementing the activities of the work programme under the 
framework for non -market approaches referred to in Article 6, paragraph 8, of the Paris 
Agreement and in decision 4/CMA.3 for 2023 –2024 and the schedule for  implementing the 
activities for 2025 –2026 set out  below;  
3. Requests  the Glasgow Committee on Non -market Approaches to continue 
implementing the work programme activities referred to in chapter V of the annex to decision 
4/CMA.3 for 2023 –2026 in two phases:  
(a) A first phase (2023 –2024) that focuses on identifying and framing all relevant 
elements of the work programme activities referred to in paragraph 8 of the annex to decision 
4/CMA.3 and operationalizing the UNFCCC web -based platform referred to in paragraph 5 
below;  
(b) A second phase (2025 –2026) that focuses on fully implementing the work 
programme activities referred to in paragraph 3(a) above following a learning -by-doing 
approach and drawing on inputs from the first phase, recognizing that some elem ents can be 
implemented earlier in the first phase, with priority given to existing non -market approaches ; 
4. Also requests  the Glasgow Committee on Non -market Approaches to undertake an 
expedited and simple assessment of the progress and outcomes of the firs t phase as referred 
to in paragraph 3(a) above at its 6th meeting, to be held in November 2024, with a view to 
improving and recommending the schedule for implementing the work programme activities 
for the second phase, taking into account any additional r elevant mandates received from the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement , for 
consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Paris Agreement at its s ixth session (November 2024) , and recalling that the 
Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice is to review the work programme 
at its sixty -fourth (2026) and sixty -fifth (2026) sessions in accordance with paragraph 10 of 
decision 4/CMA.3 ;  
II. UNFCCC web -based platform for non -market approaches  
5. Requests  the secretariat to develop and operationalize the UNFCCC web -based 
platform referred to in paragraph 8(b)(i) of the annex to decision 4/CMA.3 for recording and 
 
 1 Available at https://unfccc.int/documents/622374 .  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
56  exchanging information on non -market approaches in a user -friendly and accessible manner, 
including recording support needed and provided, for Parties participating in non -market 
approaches and other non -Party stakeholders, in accordance with standard UNFCCC 
practices for web -based communicat ions and the specifications referred to in paragraphs 
6–13 below;  
6. Decides that the UNFCCC web -based platform is to facilitate opportunities, including 
by connecting participating Parties, to identify, develop and implement non -market 
approaches and to rec ord and exchange information, for Parties that have submitted non -
market approaches and are seeking support, and Parties and entities that have submitted 
information on the support available;  
7. Also decides  that a Party participating in a non -market approach  may, with the 
concurrence of the other participating Parties, voluntarily:  
(a) Submit  via its UNFCCC national focal point the following information on the 
non-market approach es to the secretariat  for recording it on the UNFCCC web -based 
platform:  
(i) A descriptio n of the non -market approach and the implementing entities, 
including their contact information;  
(ii) Information on how the non -market approach addresses the criteria referred to 
in paragraphs 2 –3 of the annex to decision 4/CMA.3;  
(iii) Updates to the information al ready provided on the non -market approach, as 
applicable, including any available reporting on progress in implementing the non -
market approach or any lessons learned or case studies relating to the non -market 
approach;  
(iv) A description of the financial, tech nology and capacity -building support 
needed to identify, develop and implement the non -market approach;  
(b) Undertake Party -driven facilitation and matching to identify, develop and 
implement non -market approaches and record the information on the UNFCCC web -based 
platform;  
8. Invites interested  Parties, relevant bodies, institutional arrangements and processes 
under the Convention and the Paris Agreement  related to, inter alia, mitigation, adaptation, 
finance, technology development and transfer, and capacity -building,  including United 
Nations bodies, multilateral, bilateral and other public donors, and private and non -
governmental organizations to provide information on financial, technology and capacity -
building support available or provided for iden tifying, developing or implementing non -
market approaches for recording on the UNFCCC web -based platform;  
9. Notes  that recording information on a non -market approach or support available or 
needed on the UNFCCC web -based platform is for information exchange  purposes only, and 
neither creates any rights or obligations for any Party or other entity nor represents 
endorsement or approval of the non -market approach;   
10. Requests  the secretariat, subject to the availability of resources, to facilitate 
opportunities for participating Parties to identify, develop and implement non -market 
approach es by: 
(a) Organizing an in -session workshop, including plenary presentations and 
round -table discussions, to be held in conjunction with each meeting of the Glasgow 
Committee on N on-market Approaches, to exchange information on the non -market 
approaches including best practices and lessons learned from identifying, developing and 
implementing non -market approaches as well as non -market approaches that may require 
financial, technol ogy and capacity -building support and the support available for such non -
market approaches ; 
(b) Preparing a report on each workshop  for consideration by the  Glasgow 
Committee on Non -market Approaches at its subsequent meeting;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
 57 11. Decides  that the UNFCCC web -based  platform is to contain an information hub that 
provides information on available resources and tools, including links to relevant websites 
and news; a visualization tool for mapping non -market approaches and initiatives that support 
Parties in meeting the  requirements for receiving support and provide capacity -building for 
implementing non -market approaches; and a discussion forum for Parties and non -Party 
stakeholders to facilitate networking among active users of the platform , present information 
on non -market approaches, including information identified through implementing the work 
programme, such as information on non -market approaches resulting from the activities 
referred to in paragraph 10(a) above , and  include a function for searching information o n 
non-market approaches, including by keyword or tag;  
12. Requests  the secretariat to provide regular updates on the status of the development 
and operationalization of the UNFCCC web -based platform for each meeting of the Glasgow 
Committee on Non-market Appro aches and to notify Parties’ UNFCCC national focal points  
of the deployment of the fully operational web -based platform and enable their access  to it; 
13. Encourages  Parties to submit information on non -market approaches in the focus 
areas of the work programme activities for recording on the UNFCCC web -based platform 
once it becomes operational;  
III. Additional focus areas of the work programme activities  
14. Recalls the importance of integrated, holistic and balanced non -market approaches 
facilitated under the framework for non -market approaches and the aim of the approaches to 
promote mitigation and adaptation ambition as referred to in decision 4/CMA.3;  
15. Takes note of th e diverse range of potential additional focus areas for non -market 
approaches that may be facilitated under the framework, as identified by Parties and 
observers in previous rounds of submissions of views, synthesis reports and an in -session 
workshop ; 
16. Requ ests the Glasgow Committee on Non -market Approaches to identify and 
recommend  additional focus areas for the work programme activities, taking into 
consideration the experience of Parties in implementing non -market approaches and 
information provided on th e UNFCCC web -based platform, including keywords and tags, 
for consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Paris Agreement, as appropriate;  
IV. Enhanced networking and collaboration on non -market 
appr oaches  
17. Invites  Parties to use, as appropriate, spin -off groups during the meetings of the 
Glasgow Committee on Non -market Approaches  to enable more detailed discussions among 
interested Parties on specific topics identified by the Glasgow Committee on Non -market 
Approaches;  
18. Requests  the Chair of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice, 
as the convenor of the Glasgow Committee on Non -market Approaches , to invite 
representatives of relevant UNFCCC constituted bodies and institutional arran gements under 
or serving the Paris Agreement and/or the Convention, which may include the Adaptation 
Fund, the Climate Technology Centre and Network, the Global Environment Facility, the 
Green Climate Fund, the Local Communities and Indigenous Peoples Plat form, the Paris 
Committee on Capacity -building, the Standing Committee on Finance and the Technology 
Executive Committee, to a meeting held in conjunction with the fifty -eighth session of the 
Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice  (June 20 23) and organized with 
the assistance of the secretariat, with the aim of enhancing collaboration  between the 
Glasgow Committee  and relevant constituted bodies and institutional arrangements under or 
serving the Paris Agreement and/or the Convention, as necessary , taking into account their 
respective mandates;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
58  19. Also requests  the secretariat to prepare a technical paper, without formal status, for 
consideration by the Glasgow Committee on Non -market Approaches at its 3rd meeting, on 
possibili ties for enhancing engagement with public and private sector stakeholders, including 
technical experts, businesses, civil society organizations and financial institutions, at 
meetings of the Glasgow Committee on Non -market Approaches, taking into account 
experience of approaches to enhancing such engagement under the UNFCCC;  
V. Cross -cutting matters  
20. Encourages  Parties, public and private sector stakeholders and civil society 
organizations to actively engage in developing and implementing non -market approaches 
under the framework for such approaches;  
21. Requests the secretariat to include as part of its broader capacity -building programme 
related to Article 6 of the Paris Agreement activities related to the work programme under 
the framework for non -market approach es; 
22. Takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in this decision;  
23. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of  financial resources.  
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
 59 Decision 9/CMA.4  
Reviews on a voluntary basis of the information reported 
pursuant to decision 18/CMA.1, annex, chapter IV, and 
respective training courses needed  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
Recalling Article 13 of the Paris Agreement,  
Also recalling  decision 18/CMA.1 and annex, and decision 5/CMA.3 and annexes IV,  
VI and VII,  
Recognizing  that flexibility for those developing country Parties that need it in the 
light of their capacities is reflected in the modalities, procedures and guidelines for the 
transparency framework for action and support referred to in Article 13 of the Paris 
Agree ment, contained in the annex to decision 18/CMA.1,  
Also recognizing the important role that reviews on a voluntary basis of the 
information reported pursuant to decision 18/CMA.1, annex, chapter IV, could play in 
facilitating improved reporting of that i nformation  over time and enhancing national capacity 
and the capacity of adaptation experts, especially from developing country Parties , 
Further  recognizing the important role that voluntary reviews could play in 
facilitating the sharing of experience and  best practices related to reporting such information,  
Recalling  Article 13, paragraph 5, of the Paris Agreement, which provides that the 
purpose of the framework for transparency of action is to provide a clear understanding of 
climate change action in t he light of the objective of the Convention as set out in its Article  2, 
including clarity and tracking of progress towards achieving Parties’ individual nationally 
determined contributions under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement, and Parties’ adaptation 
actions under Article 7 of the Paris Agreement, including good practices, priorities, needs 
and gaps, in order to inform the global stocktake under Article 14 of the Paris Agreement, 
and recognizing  that voluntary reviews of the information reported pursuant  to decision 
18/CMA.1, annex, chapter IV, would contribute to that end,  
Also recognizing  the important role that reviews could play in facilitating improved 
reporting and recalling  that the information reported pursuant to decision 18/CMA.1, annex, 
chapter IV, constitutes an important input to the global stocktake and hence facilitates the 
assessment of collective progress towards achieving the purpose of the Paris Agreement, 
includ ing by facilitating consideration  of collective progress towards achieving the global 
goal on adaptation and recognition of the adaptation efforts of developing country Parties 
and by enhancing the reporting of information related to averting, minimizing a nd addressing 
loss and damage associated with climate change impacts,  
Recognizing the need to undertake the voluntary reviews in an efficient manner 
without placing undue burden on the technical  expert review teams, Parties or the secretariat,  
Also recog nizing  the importance  of training the experts who conduct the voluntary 
reviews  and allocating resources to facilitate such reviews,   
1. Decides that a Party may, on a voluntary basis, request the secretariat to organize a 
review of the information reported b y the Party pursuant to decision 18/CMA.1, annex, 
chapter IV, as part of the technical expert review pursuant to decision 18/CMA.1, annex, 
chapter VII;  
2. Also decides that the voluntary review, taking into account  decision 18/CMA.1, 
annex, paragraphs 147 –149, consists of:  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
60  (a) Reviewing the information reported by the Party in its biennial transparency 
report, in accordance with the modalities, procedures and guidelines contained in decision 
18/CMA.1, annex, chapter IV ;  
(b) Facilitating the improvement of the reporting of information pursuant to 
decision 18/CMA.1, annex, chapter IV, by identifying, in consultation with the Party, areas 
of improvement and capacity -building needs related to reporting;  
3. Further decides that th e Party undergoing the voluntary review may select specific 
sections of the chapter in the biennial transparency report pursuant to decision 18/CMA.1, 
annex, chapter IV,  for particular attention by the expert review team conducting the review;   
4. Decides that a Party may submit a request for the voluntary review  to the secretariat 
either in the overview section of the biennial transparency report or when agreeing with the 
secretariat the dates of the technical expert review;   
5. Also decides  that the outcome of the voluntary review should be presented in a 
dedicated annex to the techni cal expert review report referred to in decision 18/CMA.1, 
annex, paragraph 187 ; 
6. Requests the secretariat to include in the technical expert review team for conducting 
the voluntary review an expert with expertise in the areas outlined in decision 18/CMA.1 , 
annex, chapter IV, who has completed the course on general and cross -cutting aspects for the 
technical expert review under the enhanced transparency framework under the Paris 
Agreement referred to in decision 5/CMA.3, annex VII, and the training course r eferred to in 
paragraph 8 below, taking into account decision 5/CMA.3, paragraph 34;  
7. Reiterates the invitation1 to Parties and, as appropriate, intergovernmental 
organizations to nominate technical experts with expertise and experience in the areas 
outlin ed in decision 18/CMA.1, annex, chapter IV, to the UNFCCC roster of experts;  
8. Requests  the secretariat to develop and implement a training course for experts 
participating in the review referred to in paragraph 1 above , incorporating, as appropriate, 
techni cal advice from the Consultative Group of Experts and lead reviewers, as part of the 
training programme outlined in decision 5/CMA.3, annex VII, and taking into account 
decision 5/CMA.3, paragraphs 33 –34; 
9. Also requests the secretariat to report on progress  in developing the training course 
referred to in paragraph 8 above  to the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological 
Advice at its fifty -eighth (June 2023) and each subsequent session until the development of 
the training course has been completed;  
10. Decides  to undertake a review of the training course in the context of the review of 
the modalities, procedures and guidelines contained in the annex to decision 18/CMA.1 no 
later than in 2028 and to consider integrating into the training course relevant o utcomes from 
the Glasgow –Sharm el -Sheikh work programme on the global goal on adaptation referred to 
in decision 7/CMA.3;  
11. Invites developed country Parties to provide financial resources to enable the 
secretariat to develop and implement the training cours e in a timely manner,  while other 
Parties are encouraged to do so on a voluntary basis;  
12. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 1 and 8 above;  
13. Requests that the acti ons of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources . 
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2022  
 
 
 1 Decision 18/CMA.1, para. 5.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
 61 Decision 10/CMA.4  
  Report of the Adaptation Committee for 2022 and review of 
the progress, effectiveness and performance of the 
Adaptation Committee  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement  
1. Welcomes  the work of the Adaptation Committee in 2022 and takes note  of the report 
of the Adaptation Committee covering its work between September 2021 and September 
2022, contained in document FCCC/SB/2022/5 and Add.1 and Add.1/Corr.1 and Add. 2, and 
the recommendations therein;  
2. Also takes note  of the progress of the Adaptation Committee in improving its outreach 
and communication efforts and encourages  the Committee to make further use of platforms 
for outreach, communication in languages other than English and the organization of regional 
events and knowledge dialogues as ways to improve the dissemination, understanding and 
use of its knowledge products by organizations and practitioners within and outside the 
UNFCCC process and in all geographical regions;  
3. Takes note  of the engagement of the Adaptation Committee with the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change with regard to its work in relation to decisions 
9/CMA.1, paragraph 15, and 11/CMA.1, paragraph 17, an d requests  the Adaptation 
Committee to further engage with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change on 
technical and substantive work;  
4. Notes that considerations of the review of the progress, effectiveness and performance 
of the Adaptation Committee as it relates to the Paris Agreement could not be completed at 
this session and will therefore continue at the fifty -eighth sessions of the subsidiary bodies  
(June 2023);  
5. Encourages  Parties to make available sufficient resources for the successfu l and 
timely implementation of the flexible workplan of the Adaptation Committee for 
2022 –2024.1 
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
 
 
 1 FCCC/SB/2021/6, annex.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
62  Decision 11/CMA.4  
  Matters relating to the least developed countries  
The Conference of  the Parties and the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement , 
Recalling  decisions 5/CP.7, 29/CP.7, 7/CP.9, 4/CP.10, 4/CP.11, 8/CP.13, 6/CP.16, 
5/CP.17, 12/CP.18, 3/CP.20, 1/CP.21, 19/CP.21, 16/CP.24, 7/CP.25, 15/CP.26, 11/CMA.1 
and 19/CMA.1,  
Having considered the report on the 42nd meeting of the Least  Developed Countries 
Expert Group,1 
Underscoring  the importance of continued implementation by the Green Climate 
Fund of the mandate given to it in decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 46,  
1. Welcome  the progress of the Least Developed Countries Expert Group in 
implementing its work progr amme for 2022 –2023,2 including its provision of support to the 
least developed countries for developing project concepts for implementing adaptation 
actions associated with the priorities in their national adaptation plans;3 
2. Also welcome  the successful c onduct by the Least Developed Countries Expert Group 
of the national adaptation plan writing workshop for Asia -Pacific least developed countries 
held in Siem Reap, Cambodia, from 12 to 15 July 2022 and the NAP Expo held in Gaborone, 
Botswana,  from 22 to 26 August 2022 ; 
3. Express their appreciation to the Government of Cambodia for hosting the workshop 
referred to in paragraph 2 above and the Government of Botswana for hosting the 42nd 
meeting  of the Least Developed Countries Expert Group and NAP Expo 2022 and  express 
their gratitude  to the Government of Ireland for providing financial support for the work of 
the Least Developed Countries Expert Group;  
4. Express their appreciation  to the Least Developed Countries Expert Group and the 
secretariat for their valuabl e work in supporting adaptation in the least developed countries;  
5. Also express their appreciation  to the organizations that contributed to designing and 
conducting  the workshop referred to in paragraph 2 above;  
6. Welcome the progress of the Least Developed Countries Expert Group in developing 
technical guidelines for the implementation of national adaptation plans4 and note that those 
guidelines may help to address gaps and needs relating to the formulation and implementation 
of national adaptatio n plans5 and for informing the design and provision of support for the 
implementation of national adaptation plans;  
7. Also n ote the limited progress of the least developed countries on the process to 
formulate and implement national adaptation plans and the  need for enhanced support of the 
least developed countries to advance the process to formulate and implement national 
adaptation plans;  
8. Further  note that, as at 14 November 2022, 17 of the 46 least developed countries had 
submitted a national adaptation p lan since the process to formulate and implement national 
adaptation plans was established in 2010, and of those 17 least developed countries with a 
national adaptation plan, 14 had accessed funding for implementing adaptation actions 
associated with the p riorities identified therein;  
 
 1 FCCC/SBI/2022/18.  
 2 FCCC/SBI/2022/6, annex III.  
 3 FCCC/SBI/2022/18, paras. 21–23. 
 4 FCCC/SBI/2022/18 , paras. 32–35. 
 5 See https://unfccc.int/node/210550 . FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.2  
 63 9. Reiterate and recall  decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 46, and note decision 16/CP.27 in 
relation to enhancing support to the least developed countries for the formulation and 
implementation of national adaptation plans;  
10. Underscore  the importance of developing project pipelines and proposals for 
implementing adaptation actions associated with the priorities in the national adaptation plans 
of the least developed countries and encourage  relevant organizations, as well as operating 
entities of the Financial Mechanism, to enhance support to the least developed countries in 
this regard;  
11. Note with appreciation the financial pledges, totalling USD 70.6 million, made by the 
Governments of Denmark, Finland, Germany, Ireland, Slovenia, Sweden and Switzerland 
and the government of the Walloon Region of Belgium  to the Least Developed Countries 
Fund and urge additional contributions to the Fund;  
12. Request the Least Developed Countries Expert Group to enhance the support provided 
to the least develop ed countries for aligning national adaptation plans and nationally 
determined contributions;  
13. Also request the Least Developed Countries Expert Group to continue to support the 
least developed countries in integrating gender considerations into the formulat ion and 
implementation of national adaptation plans;  
14. Welcome  the development by the Least Developed Countries Expert Group of its draft 
rules of procedure;  
15. Adopt  the rules of procedure of the Least Developed Countries Expert Group 
contained in the annex;  
16. Encourage  the Least Developed Countries Expert Group to prioritize the 
implementation of the elements of its mandate in accordance with the needs of the least 
developed countries and the availability of resources;  
17. Invite  Parties and relevant organizations to contin ue to provide resources to support 
implementation of the work programme of the Least Developed Countries Expert Group.  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/10/Add.2  
64  Annex  
Rules of procedure of the Least Developed Countries Expert 
Group  
I. Scope  
1. These rules of procedure shall apply to the Least Developed Countries Expert Group 
(LEG) in conjunction with 5/CP.7, 29/CP.7, 7/CP.9, 4/CP.10, 4/CP.1 1, 8/CP.13, 6/CP.16, 
5/CP.17, 12/CP.18, 3/CP.20, 1/CP.21, 19/CP.21, 16/CP.24, 7/CP.25, 11/CMA.1, 19/CMA.1 
and 15/CP.26, as well as any other relevant decisions of the Conference of the Parties and 
the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of Par ties to the Paris Agreement.  
II. Definition of terms  
2. For the purpose of these rules of procedure, the following terms and definitions shall 
be used:  
(a) “Convention” means the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change;  
(b) “Chair” means the member of the LEG elected as Chair of the LEG;  
(c) “Vice -Chair” means the member of the LEG elected as Vice -Chair of the LEG;  
(d) “Rapporteur” means the member of the LEG elected as Rapporteur of the LEG;  
(e) “Secretariat” means the secretariat referred to in Article 8 of the Convention;  
(f) “Meeting” means the meeting of the LEG;  
(g) “Observer” means any entity the LEG may invite to its meetings.  
III. Membership, term limits, nominatio n and rotation of 
members  
3. Pursuant to decision 29/CP.7 and as amended by decision 15/CP.26, paragraph 18, 
taking into account the goal of gender balance pursuant to decision 23/CP.18, the LEG shall 
comprise 17 experts, who shall serve in their individual e xpert capacity and shall be 
nominated by regional groups and constituencies. The composition of the LEG shall be as 
follows:1  
(a) Five members from African States that are least developed countries (LDCs);  
(b) Two members from Asia -Pacific States that are LDCs;  
(c) Two members from small island developing States that are LDCs;  
(d) Four members from the LDC Parties;  
(e) Four members from developed country Parties.  
4. When nominating members to the LEG, regional groups and constituencies shall take 
into account, inter alia, exp ertise in climate change adaptation and support; engagement of 
youth; experience in climate finance; expertise in project design and implementation, 
indigenous and traditional knowledge, and education; and gender with a view to ensuring 
gender balance.  
 
 1 Decision 15/CP.26, para. 18.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/10/Add.2  
 65 5. Regional groups and constituencies represented on the LEG are encouraged to 
accommodate the needs of members that would require extended temporary absence from 
service due to sickness, parental leave and commitments that cannot be avoided, by 
nominating a temporary replacement to serve during  a member ’s term of office, before the 
return of the member to full service.  
6. The nominated temporary replacement referred to in paragraph 5 above shall serve 
within the bounds of the remaining term of the member for a  period of no more than 12 
months.  
7. Members shall serve for a term of three years and shall be eligible to serve a maximum 
of two consecutive terms of office.  
8. Members shall remain in office for the duration of their term, unless replaced by 
Parties in the ir respective groups or constituencies in accordance with paragraph s 5 above 
and 11  below . 
9. The term of office of a member shall start on 1 January unless, in cases where a 
member is replaced before the end of their term, the term shall start from the time of the 
replacement member’s nomination by the nominating group or constituency.  
10. In case of any vacancy in the LEG owing to the resignation of a member  or the non -
completion of a member’s assigned term of office, including for the reasons indicated in 
paragraph 5 above, the LEG, through the secretariat, shall request the respective group or 
constituency to select another member from the same group or constituency for nomination.  
11. If a member is unable to participate in two consecutive meetings of the LEG or is 
unable to undertake the functions and tasks set out by the Chair for circumstances beyond 
those referred to in paragraph 5 above, and that member has not communicated a reason for 
their absence to  the Chair or the secretariat, the Chair shall bring the matter to the attention 
of the LEG and shall seek clarification from the group or constituency that nominated the 
member on the status of their membership.  
12. Members shall serve in their individual expert capacity and shall have no pecuniary 
or financial int erest in the issues under consideration by the LEG.  
IV. Election of officers and their functions  
13. The LEG shall elect annually the following officers from among its LDC members:2 
(a) A Chair;  
(b) A Vice -Chair;  
(c) An anglophone Rapporteur;  
(d) A francophone Rapporteur;  
(e) A lusophone Rapporteur.  
14. The officers shall be elected to serve for a term of two years.  
15. To the extent possible, the Chair and the Vice -Chair  should be from different United 
Nations regional groups. Gender balance should also be taken into accou nt when nominating 
the Chair and the Vice -Chair.  
16. The Chair and the Vice -Chair shall be elected by the majority of  LDC members 
present and voting.  
17. The Chair shall perform the following functions:  
 
 2 Officers shall be elected in accordance with the terms of reference of the Least Developed Countries 
Expert Group  contained in the annex to decision 29/CP.7, and as per the decision of the LEG  to also 
appoint a lusophone Ra pporteur.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/10/Add.2  
66  (a) Attending meetings of and reporting to the subsidiary bodie s and to the 
Conference of the Parties and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of Parties 
to the Paris Agreement, as appropriate;  
(b) Chairing and facilitating the meetings of the LEG;  
(c) Delegating tasks to LEG members and ensuring that members fulfil their 
commitments within specified time frames;  
(d) Liaising with the Chair of the LDC Group under the UNFCCC and ensuring 
strategic engagement with the LDCs;  
(e) Representing the LEG when conducting various outreach activities.  
18. The Vice -Chair shall represe nt the Chair in their absence and shall perform the 
functions listed in paragraph 17 above, as appropriate.  
19. The anglophone Rapporteur shall have the following functions:  
(a) Liaising with anglophone LDC Parties;  
(b) Keeping records in English of meetings of the LE G. 
20. The francophone Rapporteur shall have the following functions:  
(a) Liaising with francophone LDC Parties;  
(b) Keeping records of meetings of the LEG in French.  
21. The lusophone Rapporteur shall have the following functions:  
(a) Liaising with lusophone LDC Parties;  
(b) Keeping records of meetings of the LEG in Portuguese.  
22. If both the Chair and the Vice -Chair are absent from a particular meeting, any other 
LDC member designated by the LEG members present shall temporarily serve as  Chair of 
that meeting.  
23. If the Chair or the Vice -Chair is unable to complete the assigned term of office, the 
LEG shall elect a replacement from among the LDC members to complete that term of office.  
24. The Chair or any member designated by the LEG shall represent  the LEG at external 
meetings and shall report back to the LEG on those meetings.  
25. The LEG may further define additional roles and responsibilities for the Chair, the 
Vice -Chair and the Rapporteurs.  
26. The Chair, the Vice -Chair and the Rapporteurs, in the ex ercise of their functions, shall 
remain under the authority of the LEG.  
V. Conflict of interest and confidentiality  
27. Members shall promptly disclose and recuse themselves from any deliberations or 
decision -making where their personal or financial interests may  be affected in order to avoid 
a conflict of interest or the appearance of one.  
28. Members shall not disclose any confidential information they receive in the course of 
their duties, even after their term of office as a member has expired.  
VI. Establishment and o versight of thematic working groups  
29. Pursuant to decision 15/CP.26, paragraph 9, the LEG may decide to establish 
subcommittees, thematic working groups or task -focused ad hoc working groups to provide 
expert advice to assist the LEG in implementing its work  programme, as appropriate, and 
shall report to the LEG on work undertaken.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/10/Add.2  
 67 30. In establishing any subcommittees, thematic working groups or task -focused ad hoc 
working groups, the LEG shall determine an appropriate number of members and ensure that 
members have relevant expertise in the respective field of work.  
VII. Frequency, modalities and location of meetings  
31. The LEG shall meet at least twice a year, while retaining  flexibility to adjust the 
number of meetings, as appropriate.  
32. The first meeting of the LEG sha ll be held no later than in March and the second 
meeting shall be held no later than in September to allow sufficient time for the meeting 
reports to be submitted and translated into the official languages of the United Nations in 
time for the relevant ses sions of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation.  
33. A quorum of 50 per cent plus one member of the members of the LEG shall be 
obtained for any decisions to be made  at a meeting.  
34. Virtual participation shall be made possible for LEG members who are unable to join 
an in -person meeting.  
35. Meetings of the LEG shall take place in an  LDC, unless otherwise decided by the LEG 
and subject to the necessary arrangements being made by the secretariat in consultation with 
the Chair.  
36. The Chair, in consultation wit h the members, shall guide the secretariat on the agenda 
items that shall be open for participation by resource persons and observers.  
37. The LEG shall decide on whether to webcast its meetings or part of them through the 
UNFCCC website should technical and f inancial resources permit.  
VIII.  Development of and reporting on the two -year rolling work 
programme  
38. The LEG shall develop a two -year rolling work programme  at its first meeting of each 
year for consideration by the Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its firs t session of each 
year.  
39. The LEG shall report on its work to the Subsidiary Body for Implementation at each 
of its sessions.  
IX. Agenda and documents for  meetings  
40. The Chair, assisted by the secretariat, shall prepare the provisional agenda for each 
meeting of the LEG.  
41. Members may propose additions or changes to the provisional agenda in writing to 
the secretariat within one week of receiving the provisional agenda. Any additions or changes 
shall be included in a revised provisional agenda prepared by  the secretariat in consultation 
with the Chair.  
42. The secretariat shall transmit the provisional annotated agenda for each meeting to 
members of the LEG at least four weeks prior to that meeting.  
43. The LEG shall adopt the meeting agenda at the beginning of e ach meeting . 
44. Documents for the meeting shall be decided by the Chair and the Vice -Chair with the 
assistance of the secretariat.  
45. The documents referred to in paragraph 44 above shall be made available to LEG 
members at least two weeks before the meeting.  
46. The Chair, in consultation with LEG members, shall advise the secretariat on the 
documents that shall be made public at least two weeks before the meeting.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/10/Add.2  
68  47. The secretariat, in consultation with the Chair, shall prepare a draft report o n the 
meeting,  to be  made available, to the extent possible, to members for comment at least three 
days before it is submitted for publication.  
48. The decisions and outputs of the LEG shall be made available on the UNFCCC 
website unless otherwise decided by the LEG.  
X. Decision -mak ing 
49. Decisions of the LEG shall be taken by consensus.  
XI. Participation of observers and non -members in  meetings  
50. The meetings of the LEG may be open to attendance by observers.  
51. The LEG may invite experts as resource persons to contribute to specific technical 
work at its meetings.  
52. The LEG may invite and fund, subject to the availability of resources, LDC Party 
representatives to take part in LEG meetings and contribute to the discussions.  
53. The LEG shall invite interested organizations and individuals to actively  participate 
in its work, including through any subcommittees, thematic working groups or task -focused 
ad hoc working groups the LEG may establish or in specific activities, such as designing and 
organizing events and  producing technical materials.  
XII. Means of communication  
54. English shall be  the working language of the LEG.  
55. The LEG, in conducting its activities, shall facilitate translation into official languages 
of the United Nations  relevant to the LDCs, to the extent possible.  
56. The LEG may use electronic me ans of communication to facilitate its work and to 
take decisions in accordance with guidelines to be agreed by the LEG.  
XIII.  Collaboration with other constituted bodies and entities 
under the Convention and the Paris Agreement  
57. The LEG shall invite the secretar iats of the Green Climate Fund, the Global 
Environment Facility and the Adaptation Fund to its meetings to discuss collaboration in 
supporting the LDCs.  
58. The LEG shall collaborate with other constituted bodies and entities under the 
Convention and the Paris  Agreement working on adaptation and means of implementation, 
as well as on work under the Nairobi work programme on impacts, vulnerability and 
adaptation to climate change, in providing support to the LDCs.  
XIV. Engagement of other organizations and regional centres and 
networks  
59. The LEG may invite relevant regional centres to nominate one focal point each for 
the LEG with a view to enhancing collaboration with those centres.  
60. The LEG may invite representatives of global programmes, projects and networks that 
support the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans to its meetings, as 
appropriate, as a way of promoting the exchange of experience and lessons learn ed.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/10/Add.2  
 69 XV. Authority of the Conference of the Parties and the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Paris Agreement  
61. In the event of any conflict between any provisions of these rules of procedure and 
any provisions of the Convent ion and the Paris Agreement, the Convention and the Paris 
Agreement shall prevail.  
XVI. Amendments to the rules of procedure  
62. These rules of procedure may be amended as requested by the Conference of the 
Parties and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreemen t.  
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
      
 
GE.23 -04968(E)  
Conference of the Parties  serving as the meeting  
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
Report of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement on its fourth 
session, held in Sharm el -Sheikh  from 6 to 20 November 2022  
Addendum  
Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its fourth session  
Contents  
Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
 Decision  Page 
  12/CMA.4  Santiago network for averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage  
associated with the adverse effects of climate change under  the Warsaw International 
Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated with  Climate Chang e Impacts  ............   3 
  13/CMA.4  Report of the Executive Committee of the Warsaw International Mechanism for  
Loss and Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts  ................................ .....  14 
  14/CMA.4  Matters relating to the Standing Committee on Finance  ................................ ............   16 
  15/CMA.4  Terms of reference for the second review of the functions of the Standing Committee  
on Finance ................................ ................................ ................................ ..................   17 
  16/CMA.4  Guidance to the Green Climate Fund ................................ ................................ .........   18 
  17/CMA.4  Guidance to the Global Environment Facility  ................................ ...........................   19 
  18/CMA.4  Matters relating to the Adaptation Fund  ................................ ................................ ....  21 
  19/CMA.4  Enhancing climate technology develo pment and transfer to support implementation  
of the Paris Agreement  ................................ ................................ ..............................   25 
  20/CMA.4  First periodic assessment referred to in paragraph 69 of decision 1/CP.21  ...............   28 
  21/CMA.4  Annual technical prog ress report of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building  
for 2022  ................................ ................................ ................................ .....................   30 
  22/CMA.4  Action plan under the Glasgow work programme on Action for Climate  
Empowerment  ................................ ................................ ................................ ............   32  
United Nations  FCCC /PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 
 
 
  
Distr.: General  
17 March  2023 
 
Original: English  
FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add. 3 
2   Decision  Page 
  23/CMA.4  Report of the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures  ......  39 
  24/CMA.4  Rules of procedure of the committee to facilitate implementation and promote  
compliance referred to in Article 15, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement  ...............   44 
  Resolution  
  1/CMA.4  Expression of gratitude to the Government of th e Arab Republic of Egypt and  
the people of the city of Sharm el -Sheikh  ................................ ................................ ..  64 
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 3 Decision 12/CMA.4  
  Santiago network for averting, minimizing and addressing 
loss and damage  associated with the adverse effects of climate 
change  under the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss 
and Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement ,1 
Recalling  the Paris Agreement and relevant decisions of the Conference of the Parties 
and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement,  
1. Recalls that the S antiago network for averting, minimizing and addressing loss and 
damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change was established to catalyse the 
technical assistance of relevant organizations, bodies, networks and experts for the 
implementatio n of relevant approaches for averting, minimizing and addressing loss and 
damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change at the local, national and 
regional level in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects  
of climate change;2 
2. Expresses its appreciation  to the Government of Denmark for hosting the technical 
workshop on institutional arrangements of the Santiago network from 4 to 6 May 2022, 
including for making the necessary logistical and financial arrange ments therefor;  
3. Decides that the Santiago network will have the following structure:  
(a) A hosted secretariat that will facilitate its work, to be known as the Santiago 
network secretariat;  
(b) An Advisory Board to provide guidance and oversight to the Santiago network 
secretariat on the effective implementation of the functions of the network;  
(c) A network of member organizations, bodies, networks and experts covering a 
wide range of topics relevant to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage;  
4. Recalls decision 1/CMA.3, paragraph 67, in which it was decided that the Santiago 
network will be provided with funds3 to support technical assistance for the implementation 
of relevant approaches to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage asso ciated 
with the adverse effects of climate change in developing countries in support of the functions 
set out in paragraph 9 of decision 19/CMA.3;  
5. Also recalls decision 1/CMA.3, paragraph 70, which urges developed country Parties 
to provide funds for the o peration of the Santiago network and for the provision of technical 
assistance as set out in paragraph 67 of the same decision;  
6. Encourages  others to provide support for the operation of the Santiago network and 
technical assistance;  
7. Welcomes the pledges th at have already been made to the Santiago network;  
8. Adopts  the terms of reference of the Santiago network contained in annex I;  
9. Decides  to establish the Advisory Board of the Santiago network as part of the 
Warsaw International Mechanism  for Loss and Damage  associated with Climate Change 
 
 1 Nothing in this document prejudices Parties’ views or prejudges outcomes on matters related to the 
governance of the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated with Climate 
Change Impacts.  
 2 Decision 2/CMA.2, para. 43.  
 3 See also d ecision 1/CMA.3, paras. 68 and 70.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
4  Impacts , which will be under the authority and guidance of and accountable to the appropriate 
governing body or bodies4 and have the roles and responsibilities outlined in annex I;  
10. Also decides that the members of the Advis ory Board will be elected at the next 
session of the governing body or bodies (November –December  2023) and encourages Parties 
to nominate experts with a diversity of technical experience and knowledge relevant to, inter 
alia, averting, minimizing and addre ssing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects 
of climate change, as well as  the roles and responsibilities of the Advisory Board referred to 
in annex I, taking into account the need for gender balance, in accordance with decisions 
36/CP.7, 23/C P.18 and 3/CP.25, and the composition of the Advisory Board outlined in 
annex I;  
11. Further decides  that the members elected to the Advisory Board shall serve a term of 
two years and shall be eligible to serve a maximum of two consecutive terms of office;  
12. Decides that half of the members elected in 2023 shall serve a term of three years and 
half of the members shall serve a term of two years, after which time the governing body or 
bodies shall elect half of the members every year for a term of two years;  
13. Also decides  that the members of the Advisory Board shall remain in office until their 
successors are elected ; 
14. Requests  the Advisory Board to develop draft rules of procedure5 with a view to 
recommending them to the governing body or bodies through the subsidiary bodies for 
consideration and adoption at the sixty -first sessions of the subsidiary bodies 
(November  2024 ); 
15. Also requests  the secretariat to continue providing support  for developing countries 
that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change that may seek or wish 
to benefit from the technical assistance available from organizations, bodies, networks and 
experts under the Santiago network, until the Santiago network secretariat is operational ; 
16. Decides that the Santiago network secretariat will be accountable to and operate under 
the guidance of the governing body or bodies through the Advisory Board and hosted by an 
organization or a consortium of  organizations able to provide the necessary administrative 
and infrastructural support for its effective functioning;  
17. Also decides that the Santiago network secretariat  shall, once it is operational, 
elaborate modalities and procedures for the Santiago n etwork under the guidance of and by 
approval of the Advisory Board on the basis of the terms of reference contained in annex I, 
and taking into account decision 19/CMA.3, paragraph 9, endorsed in decision 17/CP.26, and 
decision 1/CMA.3, paragraph 67, inclu ding:  
(a) Developing guidelines for the designation of organizations, bodies, networks 
and experts as members of the Santiago network;  
(b) Developing guidelines and procedures for responding to requests for technical 
assistance, including considering the developme nt of procedures for those that require an 
urgent response;  
(c) Developing guidelines for managing funding provided for technical assistance, 
including to ensure that technical assistance funded directly by the Santiago network is made 
available to communities  particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change, 
including through levels of minimum percentage of technical assistance funded directly by 
the Santiago network directed to communities particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects 
of clim ate change;  
18. Further decides  that the selection process for the host of the Santiago network 
secretariat shall be launched upon the conclusion of the twenty -seventh session of the 
Conference of the Parties and the fourth session of the Conference of the Par ties serving as 
 
 4 Nothing in this document prejudices Parties’ views or prejudges outcomes on matters  related to the 
governance of the Warsaw International Mechanism.  
 5 The Board will specify in its procedures how to adopt decisions in the event that all efforts at reaching 
consensus have been exhausted.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 5 the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement in order to select the host by 2023 and be 
conducted in an open, transparent, fair and neutral manner in accordance with the process 
outlined in paragraphs 19 –23 below, informed by United Na tions practices and standards;  
19. Requests the secretariat, under the guidance of the Chairs of the subsidiary bodies,  to: 
(a) Prepare and issue a call for proposals to host  the Santiago network secretariat 
by 31 December 2022, making it widely and publicly avail able, including preparing a 
proposal template, and invite interested organizations, including consortiums of 
organizations, to submit their proposals in response to the call by 31 March 2023;  
(b) Provide responses to enquiries from interested organizations, as  appropriate;  
(c) Compile the executive summaries contained in the submitted proposals and 
make them available on the UNFCCC website by 7 April 2023;  
(d) Convene an evaluation panel by 7 April 2023 and support the panel in the 
preparation of an evaluation report, as referred to in paragraph 22 below;  
(e) Ensure that it does not have a potential conflict of interest in the selection 
process, including by applyi ng appropriate  safeguards and procedures;  
20. Invites the Executive Committee to designate four of its members, the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network Advisory Board and the Paris Committee on Capacity -
building to designate two members each to serve as memb ers on the evaluation panel referred 
to in paragraph 19(d) above, to consider the proposals, ensuring that there is a balanced 
representation of developed and developing country Parties;  
21. Also invites  the panel to consult, as appropriate, with other constit uted bodies with 
relevant expertise, including in particular the Adaptation Committee and the Facilitative 
Working Group of the Local Communities and Indigenous Peoples Platform;  
22. Requests the evaluation panel to prepare an evaluation report with a shortli st of up to 
three proposals that meet the criteria referred to in annex II, including information on how 
the evaluation criteria have been applied to these proposals, and make the evaluation report 
available for consideration by the subsidiary bodies at th eir fifty -eighth sessions (June 2023);  
23. Also requests the subsidiary bodies to recommend at their fifty -eighth sessions a draft 
decision with one proposal to host  the Santiago network secretariat that best meets the criteria 
set out in annex II for consider ation and adoption by the governing body or bodies at their 
session(s) to be held in November –December 2023;  
24. Further  requests  the secretariat, under the guidance of the Chairs of the subsidiary 
bodies, to develop a draft host agreement (memorandum of under standing) with the proposer 
recommended by the subsidiary bodies at their fifty -eighth sessions with a view to 
recommending it for consideration and approval by the governing body or bodies at their 
session(s) to be held in November –December 2023;  
25. Invites  Parties to inform the Santiago network secretariat of their liaison to the 
Santiago network secretariat, as appropriate for their national circumstances, to support 
alignment of technical assistance through the Santiago network with national priorities;  
26. Affirms  that technical assistance provided through the Santiago network in a demand -
driven manner will be developed through an inclusive and country -driven process, taking 
into account the needs of vulnerable people, indigenous peoples and local communities;   
27. Also affirms  that, when technical  assistance is provided by the Santiago network, it 
should take into consideration the cross -cutting issues referred to in the eleventh preambular 
paragraph of the Paris Agreement;  
28. Notes that considerations  related to the governance of the Warsaw International 
Mechanism will continue at its fifth session ( November –December  2023) ;6 
 
 6 It is noted that discussions on the governance of the Warsaw International Mechanism did not 
produce an outcome; this is without prejudice to further consideration of this matter.   FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
6  29. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in this dec ision;  
30. Requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 7 Annex I  
Terms of reference of the Santiago network for averting, 
minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with 
the adverse effects of climate change  
I. Objective  
1. The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement (CMA), at its second session, established, as part of the Warsaw International 
Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts, the Santiago 
network for averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage  associated with the adverse 
effects of climate change to catalyse the technical assistance of relevant organizations, 
bodies, networks and experts for the implementation of relevant approaches at  the local, 
national and regional level in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the 
adverse effects of climate change.1  
II. Functions  
2. CMA 3 decided that the Santiago network is to have the following functions:2  
(a) Contributing to the effec tive implementation of the functions3 of the Warsaw 
International Mechanism, in line with the provisions in paragraph 7 of decision 2/CP.19 and 
Article 8 of the Paris Agreement, by catalysing the technical assistance of organizations, 
bodies, networks and  experts;  
(b) Catalysing demand -driven technical assistance, including of relevant 
organizations, bodies, networks and experts, for the implementation of relevant approaches 
to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage in developing countries that ar e 
particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change by assisting in:  
(i) Identifying, prioritizing and communicating technical assistance needs and 
priorities;  
(ii) Identifying types of relevant technical assistance;  
(iii) Actively connecting those seeking technical assistance with best suited 
organizations, bodies, networks and experts;  
(iv) Accessing technical assistance available, including from such organizations, 
bodies, networks and experts;  
(c) Facilitating the consideration of a wide range of topics r elevant to averting, 
minimizing and addressing loss and damage approaches, including but not limited to current 
and future impacts, priorities and actions related to averting, minimizing and addressing loss 
and damage pursuant to decisions 3/CP.18 and 2/CP .19, the areas referred to in Article 8, 
paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreement and the strategic workstreams of the second five-year 
rolling workplan of the Executive Committee of the Warsaw International Mechanism;4 
(d) Facilitating and catalysing collaboratio n, coordination, coherence and 
synergies to accelerate action by organizations, bodies, networks and experts, across 
communities of practices, and for them to deliver effective and efficient technical assistance 
to developing countries;  
(e) Facilitating the de velopment, provision  and dissemination of, and access to, 
knowledge and information on averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage, 
 
 1  Decision 2/CMA.2, para. 43.  
 2 Decision 19/CMA.3, para. 9.  
 3 Decision 2/CP.19, para. 5.  
 4 See FCCC/SB/2022/2/Add.2 , annex I.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
8  including comprehensive risk management approaches, at the regional, national and local  
level;  
(f) Facilitating, throug h catalysing technical assistance of organizations, bodies, 
networks and experts, access to action and support (finance, technology and capacity -
building), under and outside the Convention and the Paris Agreement, relevant to averting, 
minimizing and addre ssing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate 
change, including urgent and timely responses to the impacts of climate change.  
III. Structure  
3. The Santiago network will have the following structure:  
(a) A hosted secretariat that will facilitate  its work, to be known as the Santiago 
network secretariat;  
(b) An Advisory Board to provide guidance and oversight to the Santiago network 
secretariat on the effective implementation of the functions of the network;  
(c) A network of member organizations, bodies, networks and experts covering a 
wide range of topics relevant to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage.  
IV. Roles and responsibilities  
A. Santiago network secretariat  
4. The Santiago network secretariat shall be accountable to and operate under the 
guidance of the Advisory Board.  
5. The Santiago network secretariat shall facilitate the implementation of the functions 
of the Santiago network.5 
6. The Santiago network secretariat shall manage day -to-day operations of the Santiago 
network, including:  
(a) Building and managing the network of member organizations, bodies, 
networks and experts, covering a wide range of topics relevant to averting, minimizing and 
addressing loss and damage approaches;6 
(b) Ensuring the coordination and collaboration of the work of the San tiago 
network with relevant UNFCCC constituted bodies, in particular the Executive Committee, 
as well as exploring synergies with other initiatives and networks;  
(c) Receiving, assessing and managing the process of responding to requests from 
developing countr ies that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change 
for technical assistance to avert, minimize and address loss and damage, in coordination with 
network members;  
(d) Developing and executing the work programme approved by the Advisor y 
Board, building on synergies with the five -year rolling workplan of the Executive 
Committee;  
(e) Promoting and disseminating information on the Santiago network in a manner 
that is comprehensible and accessible to communities particularly vulnerable to the a dverse 
effects of climate change;  
(f) Managing and directing the disbursement of funds provided for the Santiago 
network consistently with the fiduciary standards, legal and ethical integrity policies, and 
financial rules and regulations of the host of the secretariat;  
 
 5 As per decision 19/CMA.3, para. 9, endorsed in decision 17/CP.26.  
 6 FCCC/SB/2022/2/Add.2, annex I.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 9 (g) Administering the funds provided for technical assistance under the Santiago 
network in a cost -effective and transparent manner;  
(h) Maintaining a monitoring and evaluation system to assess the timeliness, 
appropriateness and outcomes of assistance provided;  
(i) Supporting and facilitati ng the work of the Advisory Board.  
B. Advisory Board  
7. The Advisory Board will:  
(a) Approve policies, procedures and guidelines developed by the Santiago 
network secretariat;  
(b) Provide guidance on the effective implementation of the functions of the 
Santiago network;  
(c) Provide guidance on the preparation of the annual report of the Santiago 
network;  
(d) Approve modalities for the designation of organizations, bodies, networks and 
experts as members of the Santiago network;  
(e) Approve the work programme of the Santiago network,  ensuring, as much as 
possible, coherence and synergies with the five -year rolling workplan of the Executive 
Committee and the plans of action of the expert groups, task force and technical expert group 
of the Warsaw International Mechanism;  
(f) Approve the an nual budget of the Santiago network;  
(g) Endorse the appointment of the director of the Santiago network secretariat;  
(h) Endorse the financial statement of the Santiago network;  
(i) Review the timeliness and quality of the responses of the Santiago network to 
request s for technical assistance;  
(j) Provide guidance on and approve the criteria used to assure the relevance and 
quality of expertise and services delivered by organizations, bodies, networks and experts.  
V. Composition of the Advisory Board  
8. The Advisory Board, with  the aim of achieving fair and balanced representation, shall 
be composed of the following:  
(a) Two members from each of the five recognized United Nations regional 
groups;  
(b) One member each from the least developed countries and small island 
developing States;  
(c) Two members of the Executive Committee, nominated by the Executive 
Committee from among its members.  
9. The Advisory Board will also have three other representatives, one from the women 
and gender constituency, one from indigenous peoples organizations, and one from the 
children and youth non -governmental organizations, who may actively participate in the 
deliberations of the Advisory Board.  
VI. Matters related to meetings of the Advisory Board  
10. The Advisory Board meetings will be open to observers, unless otherw ise decided by 
the Advisory Board, and the Advisory Board will invite observers from relevant constituted 
bodies, civil society organizations and other organizations, bodies, networks and experts to FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
10  attend its meetings in order to provide technical experti se and inputs, as appropriate, to the 
Advisory Board for its deliberations.  
11. Decisions of the Advisory Board will be taken by consensus by the members listed in 
paragraph 8 above.  
12. The Advisory Board shall meet at least twice a year, where possible in connection 
with meetings of the Executive Committee, while retaining its flexibility to adjust the number 
of meetings to suit its needs.  
VII. Organizational structure of the secretariat  
13. The Santiago network secretariat will have a lean, cost -efficient organizat ional 
structure, led by a director who will manage a small core team of professional and 
administrative staff, in order to meet its responsibilities and perform its functions efficiently 
and effectively.  
14. The Santiago network secretariat is to be hosted by an organization or a consortium 
of several organizations capable of supporting the functions of the Santiago network 
secretariat.  
15. Subject to the endorsement of the Advisory Board, the director of the Santiago 
network secretariat will be appointed by the ho st. The director will be accountable to the host 
for administrative issues relating to the administrative effectiveness and efficiency of the 
Santiago network secretariat and to the Advisory Board for the effective implementation of 
the functions of the Sa ntiago network.  
16. The director will have a fixed term of office no longer than the term of the host 
agreement, which may be renewed subject to endorsement by the Advisory Board, and should 
have broad responsibility to provide strategic leadership to the San tiago network and to 
manage its secretariat.  
17. The director of the Santiago network secretariat shall serve as secretary to the 
Advisory Board.  
VIII.  Reporting  
18. In line with guidance provided by the Advisory Board, the Santiago network 
secretariat will prepare an annual report on activities of the Santiago network secretariat and 
network and on the performance of their respective functions, including information on:  
(a) Requests received and activities carried out by the Santiago network and their 
outcomes;  
(b) Responses to requests;  
(c) Ongoing work as well as lessons learned and best practices derived from that 
work;  
(d) Support delivered in regions, finance disbursed and administrative costs;  
(e) Inclusion of new members in the Santiago network and their engagement 
therein;  
(f) Assista nce to developing country Parties in identifying, prioritizing and 
communicating their needs for technical assistance;  
(g) Efforts to reach communities that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse 
effects of climate change;  
(h) Gender considerations, including through the use of gender -disaggregated 
data, consistently with decision 3/CP.25.  
19. The Santiago network secretariat will prepare an annual report and submit it to the 
Advisory Board for its consideration and approval. The approved report will be forwarded t o FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 11 the secretariat to be included in a joint annual report of the Santiago network and the 
Executive Committee submitted to the governing body or bodies through their subsidiary 
bodies.  
IX. Review  
20. The Santiago network secretariat will commission one independent  review of the 
performance of the Santiago network, including, inter alia, sustainability and sources of 
funding, adequacy of funding levels relative to technical assistance requests, timeliness, 
effectiveness, engagement, gender -responsiveness and deliver y of technical assistance to 
communities particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change, in a timely 
manner so that the findings of this review can feed into the subsequent review of the Warsaw 
International Mechanism,7 for determining t he need for further independent reviews of the 
performance of the Santiago network.  
X. Term of host agreement  
21. The initial term of the agreement to host the secretariat of the Santiago network will 
be five years, with five -year renewal periods, if so decided by the appropriate governing body 
or bodies.  
22. The renewal of the agreement to host the Santiago network secretariat will be subject 
to the host organization satisfactorily fulfilling its functions.  
 
 
 7 As per decision 2/CMA.2, para. 46.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
12  Annex II  
Criteria to be used to evaluate proposals and select the host 
of the secretariat of the Santiago network for averting, 
minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with 
the adverse effects of climate change  
1. The proposals submitted pursuant  to paragraph 19(a) of this decision will be evaluated 
against the criteria  below.  
I. Technical capability  
2. The technical capability criteria a re as follows:  
(a) Be a single organization or a consortium of partner organizations capable of 
providing a lean, efficient and agile service to the  secretariat of the  Santiago network for 
averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of 
climate change ; 
(b) Have strong networks across communities of practice, including development 
and humanitarian actors, relevant to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage, 
climate change adaptation, and disas ter risk reduction, response and recovery;  
(c) Have a broad regional presence and have demonstrated experience and 
expertise in understanding the dynamics of various countries;  
(d) Have a track record of facilitating technical assistance and building capacity in 
developing countries and communities that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects 
of climate change;  
(e) Have demonstrated experience in managing global networks or initiatives and 
capability to engage with multiple stakeholders for effective operati ons; 
(f) Have demonstrated the capacity to engage in partnerships with a wide range of 
organizations, bodies, networks and experts across different communities working in 
domains relevant to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage, including climat e 
change adaptation, disaster risk management, humanitarian aid and development 
cooperation, as well as with finance providers and other partners.  
II. Management and governance  
3. The management and governance criteria are as follows:  
(a) Have an effective governance  and management structure to support high -
quality administration, ensuring compliance with ethical standards;  
(b) Have the necessary staff recruitment and management capability;  
(c) Have demonstrated an ability to simultaneously administer and manage 
multiple and complex projects in developing countries;  
(d) Be able to manage and maintain information systems to enable sharing of best 
practices and lessons learned;  
(e) Be able to guarantee the appropriate monitoring and tracking of the actions 
undertaken.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 13 III. Financial manageme nt 
4. The financial management criteria are as follows:  
(a) Have financial management, auditing and reporting functions; a robust 
accountability system; sound financial systems of international standard; and a fiduciary 
record that ensures the correct and imparti al administering and disbursement of funds;  
(b) Have a track record in financial stability and sustainability.  
IV. Vision and management plan  
5. The vision and management plan criteria are as follows:  
(a) Have an overall vision, structure and approach in terms of how the  host will 
support the effective functioning of the Santiago network;  
(b) Have a proposal for providing the Santiago network secretariat with in -kind 
and financial support;  
(c) Identify the ways in which partners and networks could be engaged to facilitate 
and ca talyse technical assistance . 
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
14  Decision 13/CMA.4  
  Report of the Executive Committee of the Warsaw 
International Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated 
with Climate Change Impacts  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement ,1 
Recalling  decision 2/CP.19, whereby the Executive Committee was established to 
guide the implementation of the functions of the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss 
and Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts to address loss and damage associated 
with the impacts of climate change, including extreme events and slow onset events, in 
developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change,  
Also recalling relevant decisions of the Conference of the Parties and the Confe rence 
of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement,  
Further recalling Article 8 of the Paris Agreement,  
1. Welcomes : 
(a) The report for 2022 of the Executive Committee of the Warsaw International 
Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts, appreciating the 
work of the Executive Committee and endorsing the recommendations in the report;2 
(b) The adoption by the Executive Committee of its second five -year rolling 
workplan, the second plan of action of the t echnical expert group on comprehensive risk 
management and the third plan of action of the task force on displacement;3 
2. Expresses  its appreciation  to the organizations and experts that contributed to the 
progress of the work reported in the document refer red to in paragraph 1(a) above, including 
in relation to:  
(a) The development of the second five -year rolling workplan of the Executive 
Committee;  
(b) The achievements of the expert groups, technical expert group and task force 
of the Executive Committee;  
(c) Contribu tion to the regular meetings of the Executive Committee;  
(d) The submission of information pursuant to paragraph 44 of decision 2/CMA.2, 
and noted in decision 2/CP.25, relevant to the Santiago network for averting, minimizing and 
addressing loss and damage ass ociated with the adverse effects of climate change;  
3. Encourages  the organizations and experts to continue to contribute as referred to in 
paragraph 2 above;  
4. Requests  the Executive Committee to continue:  
(a) Exploring further opportunities and modalities for eng aging national 
stakeholders, including loss and damage contact points and national focal points;  
(b) Collaborating and enhancing synergies with programmes , bodies  and 
platforms under and outside the Convention and the Paris Agreement;  
5. Also requests  the Executi ve Committee, with regard to information relating to 
averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage, to continue collaborating with the 
 
 1 Nothing in this document prejudices Parties’ views or prejudges outcomes on ma tters related to the 
governance of the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated with Climate 
Change Impacts.  
 2 FCCC/SB/2022/2 and Add.1 –2. 
 3 Contained in document FCCC/SB/2022/2/Add.2, annexes I –III. FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 15 Consultative Group of Experts in accordance with the latter’s mandate to provide technical 
advice and support to de veloping country Parties for enhancing their institutional and 
technical capacity to prepare and submit national reports;  
6. Further requests  the secretariat, in responding to paragraph 11 of decision 19/CMA.3, 
and endorsed in decision 17/CP.26, to make publi c the requests it receives for technical 
assistance and to more actively communicate information on technical assistance available 
and the ways in which countries may access the technical assistance available, including as 
articulated by organizations, bod ies, networks and experts responding to the invitation in 
paragraph 44 of decision 2/CMA.2, and noted in decision 2/CP.25, relevant to the Santiago 
network for averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse 
effects of clima te change, and to report on progress to the Executive Committee;  
7. Notes that considerations related to the governance of the Warsaw International 
Mechanism will continue at its fifth session (November –December 2023);4 
8. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 1 –6 above;  
9. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
 
 
 4 It is noted that discussions on the governance of the Warsaw International Mechanism did not 
produce an outcome; this is without prejudice to further consideration of this matter.   FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
16   Decision 14/CMA.4  
  Matters relating to the Standing Committee on Finance  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
Recalling  Article 9 of the Paris Agreement , 
Also recalling  decisions 1/CP.21, paragraphs  53 and 63, 11/CP.25, 5/CP.26, 
14/CMA.1, 5/CMA.2 and 11/CMA.3,  
1. Affirms decision 14/CP.27;  
2. Notes  the synthesis of views regarding ways to implement Article 2, paragraph 1(c), 
of the Paris Agreement;1 
3. Also notes the work of the Standing Committee on Finance on mapping of available 
information relevant to Article 2, paragraph 1(c), of the Paris Agreement, including its 
reference to Article 9 thereof;2 
4. Requests  the Standing Committee on Finance to continue its work regarding ways to 
achieve Article 2, paragraph 1(c), of the Paris Agreement, including options for appro aches 
and guidelines for implementation, in accordance with decision 10/CMA.3, paragraph 2, for 
consideration by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Paris Agreement at its fifth session (November –December 2023) and invites Parties and 
stakeholders in the financial sector to make further submissions thereon via the submission 
portal3 by 30 April 2023;  
5. Requests the Standing Committee on Finance to report to the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Par ties to the Paris Agreement at its fifth session on progress in 
implementing its workplan for 2023 ;4 
6. Also requests the Standing Committee on Finance to consider the guidance provided 
to it in other relevant decisions of the Conference of the Parties servi ng as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Paris  Agreement.  
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
 
 
 1 FCCC/CP/2022/8/Add.3 –FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/7/Add.3.  
 2 FCCC/CP/2022/8/Add.4 –FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/7 /Add.4.  
 3 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx .  
 4 FCCC/CP/2022/8 –FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/7, annex II.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 17 Decision 15/CMA.4  
  Terms of reference for the second review of the functions of 
the Standing Committee on Finance  
The Conference of the Parties  serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
Recalling  decisions 6/CP.20, 6/CP.21, 8/CP.22, 9/CP.22, 8/CP.23, 4/CP.24, 
11/CP.25, 5/CP.26, 5/CMA.2 and 10/CMA.3,  
Affirms decision 15/CP.27, which, inter alia, adopts the terms of reference for the 
second review of the functions1 of the Standing Committee on Finance . 
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
.
 
 1 Pursuant to decision 5/CMA.2, para. 17.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
18  Decision 16/CMA.4  
Guidance to the Green Climate Fund  
The Conference of the Parties serving  as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
1. Recommends that the Conference of the Parties at i ts twenty -seventh session transmit 
to the Green Climate Fund the guidance contained in paragraphs 2 –7 below;1 
2. Welcomes  the report of the Green Climate Fund to the Conference of the Parties at its 
twenty -seventh session and its addendum ,2 including the information  on actions taken by the 
Board of the Green Climate Fund in response to guidance received from the Conference of 
the Parties;  
3. Also welcomes  the ongoing efforts  of the Green Climate Fund to make a significant 
and ambitious contribu tion to global efforts towards achieving the ultimate objective of the 
Convention and the goals set by the Paris Agreement to combat climate change and adapt ing 
to its impacts while taking into account the needs of developing countries;  
4. Requests  the Board to increase its support to developing countries in order to guide 
and enable Green Climate Fund programming to promote a paradigm shift across both high -
impact areas of mitigation potential and countries’ adaptation and resilience needs, includi ng 
by supporting a wider alignment of financial flows with countries’ climate plans and 
strategies;  
5. Encourages  the Board to continue supporting results -based payments through policy 
approaches and positive incentives for enhancing the contributions of deve loping countries 
to global mitigation efforts through the implementation of activities relating to reducing 
emissions from deforestation and forest degradation, conserving forest carbon stocks, 
sustainably managing forests and enhancing forest carbon stock s, in accordance with 
Article  5 of the Paris Agreement;  
6. Invites  the Board to take further action in relation to the Fund’s approach to financing 
alternative policy approaches to results -based payments, such as joint mitigation and 
adaptation approaches for  the integral and sustainable management of forests, in accordance 
with decision 16/CP.21;  
7. Requests  the Board to consider how to enhance support for just transitions of 
developing countries across economic sectors and transition to resilient economies, and  how 
to provide better access to climate finance and enablers of just transitions, to the extent that 
this is in line with the existing mandate, investment framework, results framework, and 
funding windows and structures of the Green Climate Fund.  
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
 
 
 
 1 In accordance with decision 1/CP.21, para. 61.  
 2 FCCC/CP/2022/4 and Add.1.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 19   Decision 17/CMA.4  
  Guidance to the Global Environment Facility  
The Conference of the Parties serving  as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
1. Recommends that the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -seventh session transmit 
to the Global Environment Facility the guidance contained in paragraphs 2 –10 below;1 
2. Welcomes  the actions taken by the Global Environment Facility to incorporate 
innovation and technology development and transfer into the programming directions under 
the eighth replenishment of the Global Environment Facility, noting the goals of the Paris 
Agreeme nt; 
3. Appreciates  the efforts of the Global Environment Facility in developing an expedited 
process for projects related to preparing biennial transparency reports and in combining the 
multiple processes for applying for support for preparing biennial transp arency reports;  
4. Encourages  the Global Environment Facility to further enhance its reporting on 
whether and how Parties have used their System for Transparent Allocation of Resources 
country allocation for developing and revising technology needs assessment s and action 
plans and implementing them;  
5. Requests the Global Environment Facility  to improve working with its implementing 
agencies in order to expedite the project preparation and submission processes for biennial 
transparency reports to increase the eff iciency of the project cycle;  
6. Welcomes the actions taken by the Global Environment Facility to ensure that support 
will continue to be available for the preparation of biennial transparency reports and 
underlines  the importance of providing support to deve loping countries for preparing biennial 
transparency reports, including for establishing and enhancing national reporting systems in 
order to implement the enhanced transparency framework;  
7. Notes the increased support provided by the Global Environment Faci lity for 
developing countries to prepare biennial transparency reports and for the Capacity -building 
Initiative for Transparency, in particular in the context of implementation of the enhanced 
transparency framework;  
8. Encourages  the Global Environment Facil ity, through the Capacity -building Initiative 
for Transparency, to continue  providing capacity -building support to developing country 
Parties for enhancing and sustaining adaptation monitoring, reporting, evaluation and 
learning systems, as well as for est ablishing and enhancing these systems at all levels, with a 
view to facilitating:  
(a) The monitoring and reporting of the progress, effectiveness and adequacy of 
adaptation action and support over time;   
(b) The sharing of experience globally to contribute to enh ancing action, support 
and international cooperation;  
9. Also encourages the Global Environment Facility to continue its efforts to provide 
adequate, predictable and timely financing for biennial transparency reports, including efforts 
relating to the increas ed support for biennial transparency reports and national inventory 
reports of greenhouse gas emissions and removals, the combined application process for 
multiple biennial transparency reports, and the expedited process for projects related to 
preparing b iennial transparency reports;  
10. Acknowledges  the challenges developing country Parties face in implementing the 
enhanced transparency framework under the Paris Agreement in a sustainable manner, 
including in establishing and enhancing reporting systems withi n their respective national 
 
 1 In accordance with decision 1/CP.21, para. 61.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
20  governments, and requests  the Global Environment Facility to consult with developing 
country Parties on how the support provided to them by the Facility for preparing their 
biennial transparency reports could best achieve this, in addition to the support provided for 
capacity -building provided through the Capacity -building Initiative for Transparency .  
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 21   Decision 18/CMA.4  
Matters relating to the Adaptation Fund  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
Recalling  decisions  1/CMP.3, 1/CMP.4, 2/CMP.10, 1/CMP.11, 2/CMP.12, 
1/CMP.13, 1/CMP.14, 3/CMP.15 and 3/CMP.16,  
Also recalling decisions 13/CMA.1 and 1/CMA.3, paragraph 18,  
1. Takes note of the annual report of the Adaptation Fund Board for 2022, including its 
addendum, and the information therein;1  
2. Notes  the following information, actions and decisions relating to the Adaptation Fund 
Board presented in the report referred to in paragraph 1 above:  
(a) The accreditation of 1 national implementing ent ity and 2 regional 
implementing entities (with the national implementing entities granted direct access to 
resources from the Adaptation Fund), resulting in a total number of accredited implementing 
entities of 34 national (of which 10 in the least develop ed countries and 7 in small island 
developing States), 14 multilateral and 9 regional implementing entities, of which 33 were 
reaccredited (17 national implementing entities, 5 regional implementing entities and 11 
multilateral implementing entities) for a ccessing resources from the Adaptation Fund 
directly;  
(b) Cumulative receipts of USD  1,235.06 million, as at 30 June 2022, into the 
Adaptation Fund Trust Fund, comprising USD  211.80 million from the monetization of 
certified emission reductions, USD  982.00 mil lion from contributions and USD  41.26 
million from investment income earned on the Trust Fund balance;  
(c) Contributions of USD  127.65 million, of which USD  3.42 million from the 
monetization of certified emission reductions, USD  123.18 million from additional  
contributions and USD  1.05 million from investment income, received between 1 July 2021 
and 30 June 2022;  
(d) Contributions amounting to USD  123.18 million received between 1 July 2021 
and 30  June 2022 and new pledges amounting to USD  349.00 million, of which  USD  174.40 
million received as at 8 November 2022, towards the Adaptation Fund resource mobilization 
target of USD  120.00 million per year for the biennium 2020 –2021;  
(e) Outstanding pledged contributions of USD  174.60 million as at 8 November 
2022;  
(f) Resource s available for new funding approvals amounting to USD  219.25 
million as at 30 June 2022;  
(g) New funding approvals, including for concrete single -country and regional 
(multi -country) proposals, grant proposals under the Medium -Term Strategy of the 
Adaptation Fund for 2018 –20222 and readiness grants, amounting to USD  94.10 million as 
at 30 June 2022;  
(h) An active pipeline of project and programme proposals amounting to 
USD  333.70 million as at 30 June 2022, reflecting an upward trend from previous year s; 
(i) Cumulative project and programme approvals increasing by around 11 per cent 
to USD  929.72 million between 1 July 2021 and 30 June 2022;  
(j) The approval of eight single -country project or programme proposals 
submitted by implementing entities, totalling USD  53.00 million, of which two proposals 
 
 1 FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/4 –FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/3 and Add.1.  
 2 See Adaptation Fund Board document AFB/B.39/5/Rev.2.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
22  submitted by national implementing entities, amounting to USD  1.80 million; one single -
country proposal submitted by a regional implementing entity, amounting to USD  10.00 
million; and five single -country proposals su bmitted by multilateral implementing entities, 
totalling USD  41.30 million;  
(k) The approval of three multi -country projects, amounting to USD  39.90 
million;  
(l) Cumulative disbursements to the 132 projects approved since the 
operationalization of the Adaptation F und amounting to USD  567.84 million, including 
USD  76.40 million disbursed between 1 July 2021 and 30 June 2022;  
(m) The implementation of 80 projects, of which 5 initiated and 10 completed, 
between 1 July 2021 and 30 June 2022;  
(n) The approval of two small -grant proposals for innovation amounting to 
USD  0.50 million and one learning grant amounting to USD  0.15 million as well as the 
commencement of the second year of implementation of the Adaptation Fund Climate 
Innovation Accelerator;  
(o) Access  for developing cou ntries to the Adaptation Fund Climate Innovation 
Accelerator through the United Nations Development Programme, in addition to through the 
United Nations Environment Programme and the Climate Technology Centre and Network 
for countries  without national impl ementing entities;  
(p) New activities under the Medium -Term Strategy of the Adaptation Fund for 
2018 –2022, including the approval of large grants for innovation, a funding window for 
enhanced direct access and guidance for implementing entities;  
(q) The launch of a virtual learning course on accessing project scale -up grants, 
the publication of knowledge products on key emerging themes in relation to climate 
adaptation, including transboundary approaches and youth engagement, and the streamlining 
of the Adaptation Fund accreditation process;  
(r) The organization of readiness events, held virtually, for accredited national 
implementing entities, including seminars, workshops and learning events on accessing 
Adaptation Fund grants, innovation, global accreditation and en hanced direct access, and a 
country exchange for South –South learning;  
(s) The approval of the 2022 –2025 resource mobilization strategy3 and the 
resource mobilization action plan4 of the Adaptation Fund;  
(t) The approval of options for enhancing civil society pa rticipation and 
engagement in Adaptation Fund work;  
(u) The approval of the Adaptation Fund evaluation policy,5 which replaces the 
current evaluation framework, and the work of the Technical Evaluation Reference Group of 
the Adaptation Fund on the first eval uation of the Adaptation Fund;  
(v) The application of the updated Adaptation Fund gender policy and action plan 
and the consideration of ways to advance gender equality and the empowerment of women 
and girls in relation to addressing climate change;  
(w) The appr oval by the Adaptation Fund Board of the amendments to the strategic 
priorities, policies and guidelines, and operational policies and guidelines of the Adaptation 
Fund;6  
(x) The promotion of linkages of the Adaptation Fund with other UNFCCC 
bodies, such as the Adaptation Committee, the Climate Technology Centre and Network, the 
Global Environment Facility, the Green Climate Fund, the Paris Committee on Capacity -
building and the Standing Committee on Finance, with the Adaptation Fund Board having 
 
 3 See Adaptation Fu nd Board document AFB/B.39/6/Add.1/Rev.2.  
 4 See Adaptation Fund Board document AFB/B.39/6/Add.1/Rev.1.  
 5 See Adaptation Fund Board document AFB/EFC.29/6/Rev.1.  
 6 See decision 3/CMP.16, para. 6.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 23 progressed i n establishing linkages between the Adaptation Fund and the Green Climate 
Fund, including through a framework for promoting the scale -up of funded projects and the 
Community of Practice for Direct Access Entities;  
(y) The adoption of the Medium -Term Strategy of the Adaptation Fund for 
2023 –2027;  
3. Welcomes the financial pledges to the Adaptation Fund made by the Governments of 
Austria, France, Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Japan, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, 
Republic of Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the  United States of America, as well as 
the government of the Walloon Region of Belgium and the provincial government of Quebec, 
equivalent to USD 211.58 million;  
4. Stresses the urgency of enhancing ambition and action in relation to adaptation and 
adaptation finance in this critical decade to achieve the global goal on adaptation and the 
goals of the Paris Agreement;  
5. Notes  the outstanding pledged contributions to the Adaptation Fund and urges  Parties 
to fulfil their pledges as soon as possible;  
6. Encourages  continued and increased voluntary contributions of financial resources to 
the Adaptation Fund in line with the 2022 –2025 resource mobilization strategy of the Fund;  
7. Recalls  the invitation of  the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Paris Agreement7 to developed country Parties to consider multi -annual pledges 
to the Fund;  
8. Underscores  the urgency of scaling up financial resources, including the provision of 
voluntary support, that are additional to the share of proceeds levied on certified emission 
reductions in order to support the resource mobilization efforts of the Adaptation Fund Board 
with a view to strengthening the Adaptation Fund;  
9. Emphasizes the impo rtance of continuing to take actions to promote the adequacy and 
predictability of adaptation finance, taking into account the role of the Adaptation Fund in 
delivering dedicated support for adaptation;  
10. Invites developed country Parties, including in the context of decision 1/CMA.3, 
paragraphs 16 –18, to scale up their financial contributions to the Adaptation Fund;  
11. Notes with appreciation  the work of the Adaptation Fund Board on adopting the 
amended operational policies and guidelines8 for Parties to access resources from the 
Adaptation Fund and  welcomes the amended strategic priorities, policies and guidelines of 
the Adaptation Fund;9  
12. Requests  the Adaptation Fund Board, in line with its existing mandate and decisions 
1/CMP.3 and 1/CM P.4, to consider and provide an update on its activities and scope of 
support in relation to assisting developing country Parties to the Paris Agreement, including 
information on:  
(a) Actions in relation to needs and priorities identified in adaptation plannin g 
processes, including national adaptation plans, nationally determined contributions, 
adaptation communications and other voluntary adaptation reports, taking into consideration 
gaps and challenges faced by countries;  
(b) Institutional capacity -building in c ountries aimed at enhancing access to the 
Adaptation Fund;  
(c) Efforts to support the global goal on adaptation of enhancing adaptive capacity, 
strengthening resilience and reducing vulnerability to climate change with a view to 
contributing to sustainable dev elopment and ensuring an adequate adaptation response in the 
context of the global temperature goal referred to in Article 2 of the Paris Agreement;  
 
 7 See decision 1/CMA.3, para. 16.  
 8 See Adaptation Fund B oard document AFB/B.39/9/Add.2.  
 9 See Adaptation Fund Board document AFB/B.39/9/Add.1.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
24  13. Also requests  the Adaptation Fund Board to include in its annual report to the 
Conference of the Parties se rving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its 
fifth session (November –December  2023) an update on its progress in assisting developing 
country Parties in meeting their adaptation commitments under the Paris Agreement;  
14. Recalls  decision 4/CMP.16, paragraph 3, and takes note  of decision 5/CMP.17;  
15. Underlines  decision 4/CMP.16, paragraph 6, whereby Parties to the Conference of the 
Parties serving as meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement were welcomed to participate 
in the fourth rev iew of the Adaptation Fund;  
16. Encourages  the Adaptation Fund to support developing country Parties that are 
particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change, in particular the least 
developed countries and small island developing States, in i mplementing their national 
adaptation plans and adaptation communications, including those submitted as adaptation 
components of nationally determined contributions;  
17. Reiterate s decision 3/CMP.16, paragraph 7, which confirms that Parties to the Paris 
Agreem ent are eligible for membership on the Adaptation Fund Board;  
18. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to continue consideration of matters 
relating to membership of the Adaptation Fund Board at its fifty -eighth session (June 2023) 
as needed, in vie w of the Adaptation Fund’s transition to exclusiv ely serve the Paris 
Agreement;  
19. Encourages  the Adaptation Fund Board to continue its consideration of its rules of 
procedure in the context of serving the Paris Agreement, including after the Subsidiary Body 
for Implementation has concluded its consideration of matters related to membership of the 
Adaptation Fund Board ; 
20. Takes note  of the Board’s work on complementarity and coherence with other 
multilateral climate funds with respect to accreditation and other areas of operations and 
encourages  the Board to continue this work to streamline access modalities for project 
approval and the interoperability of reporting requirements, as appropriate;  
21. Invites  the Board to adopt a policy on safeguarding against sexual e xploitation and 
abuse and sexual harassment.  
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 25   Decision 19/CMA.4  
  Enhancing climate technology development and transfer to 
support implementation of the Paris Agreement  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement ,  
Recalling  Article 10 of the Paris Agreement,  
Also recalling  decision 1/CP.21, paragraphs 66 and 68, and decisions 15/CMA.1, 
8/CMA.2 and 15/CMA.3 , 
1. Notes the joint annual report of the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network for 20221 and their efforts to advance their work, as guided 
by the technology framework;  
2. Welcomes  the collaboration of the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network in their joint work in 20222 and invites  them to continue 
under taking joint work and enhance their exchange of systematic feedback with a view to  
ensuring coherence and synergy and effective implementation of the technology framework;  
3. Welcomes with appreciation  the first joint work programme of the Technology 
Mechanism, for 2023 –2027,3 developed to strengthen the Technology Mechanism to support 
the transformational changes needed to achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement;  
4. Welcomes the key joint activities and  common areas of work outlined in the joint work 
programme : technology road maps, digitalization, national systems of innovation, water –
energy –food systems, energy systems, buildings and infrastructure, business and industry, 
and technology needs assessmen t; 
5. Invites  the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Centre and 
Network to jointly pursue collaborat ive partnerships and strategic  engagement  with bodies , 
processes and initiatives under and outside the Convention and the Paris Agreemen t, 
including in the private sector, with a view to facilitating the  implementation of all activities 
under the joint work programme;  
6. Requests  the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Centre 
and Network to include information in their j oint annual reports to the Conference of the 
Parties and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement on activities and actions under the technology framework that have been 
implemented under the joint work pro gramme;  
7. Notes with appreciation  the collaboration of the Technology Executive Committee 
and the Climate Technology Centre and Network in raising awareness of the role of climate 
technologies in implementing nationally determined contributions and looks for ward  to the 
continuation thereof;  
8. Commends the continued efforts of the Technology Executive Committee and the 
Climate Technology Centre and Network in mainstreaming gender considerations in their 
work and looks forward  to the swift finalization of the glo bal rosters of female experts in the 
area of climate technology  and of female and male experts on gender and climate change;  
9. Welcomes the collaboration of the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network with the operating e ntities of the Financial Mechanism and  
strongly encourages the two bodies  to continue such collaboration with a view t o enhancing 
 
 1 FCCC/SB/2022/4.  
 2 See the table on joint activities of the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology 
Centre and Network for 2022 –2023, available at https://unfccc.int/ttclear/tec .  
 3 Available at https://unfccc.int/ttclear/tec/documents.html .  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
26  the capacity of developing countries to prepare project proposals and facilitating their access 
to available funding for techn ology development and transfer;  
10. Requests  the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Centre 
and Network to continue to enhance their efforts to monitor and evaluate  the impacts of their 
work, including identifying new ways to invite  feedback from national designated entities on 
the impact of the work of the Technology Mechanism such as through more  practical and 
effective surveys;  
11. Expresses its appreciation  for the voluntary financial contributions provided by 
Parties for supporting t he work of the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network to date and encourages  the provision of enhanced support 
for the work of the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Centre 
and Network through fi nancial and other resources;  
12. Notes  that the joint annual report referred to in paragraph 1 above does not contain 
information on how the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology 
Centre and Network responded to mandates of Parties in the im plementation of their work 
and requests  the two bodies to include such information in their joint annual reports;  
13. Encourages  the secretariats supporting the Technology Executive Committee and the 
Climate Technology Centre and Network to collaborate closely , including on resource 
mobilization, to ensure effective implementation of the joint work programme;  
14. Requests the secretariat to ensure that the relevant activities of the UNFCCC Global 
Innovation Hub contribute to supporting the implementation of the joi nt work programme as 
guided by the technology framework to avoid duplication and fragmentation of efforts in the 
area of innovation;  
I. Activities and performance of the Technology Executive 
Committee in 2022  
15. Invites Parties and relevant stakeholders to consi der the relevant key messages and 
the implementation of recommendations of the Technology Executive Committee for 2022 
and also invites  the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Centre 
and Network to consider the recommendations address ed directly to them;  
16. Encourages the Technology Executive Committee to continue its efforts to enhance 
its visibility and outreach to Parties, including through their respective national designated 
entities, UNFCCC constituted bodies and other relevant stak eholders and maximize the 
uptake of its recommendations;  
17. Notes with concern  that gender balance in the composition of the Technology 
Executive Committee has not yet been achieved;  
18. Reiterates its concern  that the composition of the Technology Executive Comm ittee 
prevents certain Parties from fully participating in its work;4 
II. Activities and performance of the Climate Technology Centre 
and Network in 2022  
19. Encourages the Climate  Technology Centre and Network to continue providing 
support to developing countrie s, on request, including those that have not yet received 
support for technical assistance from the Climate Technology Centre and Network, including 
by mobilizing private sector entities and Network members, with a view to building and 
strengthening the ca pacity of developing countries, to assess their technology needs, develop 
and implement technology action plans, scale up technical assistance and access available 
funding for implementation of mitigation and adaptation actions;  
 
 4 Decision 15/CMA.3, para. 13.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 27 20. Welcomes the launch of the Partnership and Liaison Office in Songdo, Republic of 
Korea, and requests  the Climate Technology Centre and Network to include information on 
experience in and lessons learned from the operation of its Partnership and Liaison Office in 
Songdo in its annual  reports;  
21. Notes with concern  that securing funding for implementing the mandates of the 
Technology Mechanism remains an important challenge and encourages the provision of 
enhanced support to the Technology Mechanism;  
22. Appreciates the efforts of the Climate  Technology Centre and Network to mobilize a 
diverse range of resources, including pro bono and in -kind contributions, and requests  the 
Climate Technology Centre and Network to finalize and implement a resource mobilization 
and partnership strategy and to include information thereon in its annual reports;  
23. Welcomes  with appreciation  the reaccreditation of the United Nations Environment 
Programme and the upgrade to the medium -sized project budget category by the Green 
Climate Fund Board, for the submission of  funding proposals to the Fund;  
24. Welcomes  the ongoing work by the Climate Technology Centre and Network on the 
development of two medium -sized projects and encourages  the Climate Technology Centre 
and Network to consider regional balance in the development of future projects, and to report 
on the use of the Project Preparation Facility under the Green Climate Fund in its annual 
reports . 
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2022  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
28    Decision 20/CMA.4  
  First periodic assessment referred to in paragraph 69 of  
decision 1/CP.21  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement ,  
Recalling  decisions 1/CP.21, 15/CMA.1, 16/CMA.1 and 17/CMA.3,  
Also recalling  decision 15/CMA.1, paragraph 7, according to which the outcomes of 
and/or recommendations resulting from the first periodic assessment referred to in 
paragraph  69 of decision 1/CP.21 shall be considered when updating the technology 
framework,  
Further reca lling decision 16/CMA.1, paragraph 4, according to which the outcomes 
of the first periodic assessment referred to in paragraph 1 of that decision should serve as an 
input to the global stocktake referred to in Article 14 of the Paris Agreement,  
1. Acknowled ges the findings of the final report on the first periodic assessment of the 
effectiveness and adequacy of the support provided to the Technology Mechanism in 
supporting the implementation of the Paris Agreement on matters relating to technology 
developmen t and transfer1 and invites  the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network to implement the recommendations therein when 
undertaking the joint work programme of the Technology Mechanism for 2023 –2027;2 
2. Requests  the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Centre 
and Network to include in their joint annual report for 2023 and in subsequent reports to the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement, 
through the subsidiary bodies, information on actions undertaken in response to the 
recommendations contained in the final report referred to in paragraph 1 above;  
3. Welcomes  the joint work programme for 2023 –2027 of the Technology Executive 
Committee and the Cl imate Technology Centre and Network, which ensures synergies and 
complementarity between  the work of the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network and strengthens the implementation of the mandates of the 
Technology Mecha nism;  
4. Notes with concern  that securing funding for implementing the mandates of the 
Technology Mechanism remains an important challenge and encourages  those in the position 
to do so to provide enhanced support to the Technology Mechanism;  
5. Also e ncourages  the Climate Technology Centre and Network to continue 
matchmaking for the purpose of securing funding for the implementation of projects after 
technical assistance is provided to developing countries;  
6. Further  encourages  the Technology Executive Committee an d the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network to continue their efforts to enhance resource mobilization  
so as to meet the costs associated with their activities for implementing their respective 
mandates and providing support  to developing countries  in impl ementing mitigation and 
adaptation action;3 
7. Invites Parties, the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology 
Centre and Network to explore ways of providing enhanced technical and logistical support 
to national designated entities, including  through collaboration with the public and 
private  sector;  
 
 1 FCCC/SBI/2022/13 . 
 2 Available at https://unfccc.int/ttclear/tec/documents.html .  
 3 In response to the recommendation set out in document FCCC/SBI/2022/13, para. 75.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 29 8. Decides  that the main challenges identified in the periodic assessment referred to in 
paragraph  1 above be given consideration in the global stocktake;  
9. Requests the secretariat to consider experience in and lessons learned from 
undertaking the first periodic assessment in preparing for the second periodic assessment, 
including the incorporation of the activities under the technology framework, the 
implementation o f technology action plans and the levels of support at different stages of the 
technology cycle, and  taking into account the concern regarding membership composition of 
the Technology Executive Committee;4 
10. Encourages  the Climate Technology Centre and Netw ork, when implementing its 
programme of work 2023 -2027 ,5 to make use of pilot and demonstration projects in 
identifying local champions who could showcase the successful implementation of 
technology solutions;  
11. Requests the Subsidiary Body for Implementati on to initiate at its sixty -fourth session 
(2026) the second periodic assessment of the effectiveness and adequacy of the support 
provided to the Technology Mechanism in supporting the implementation of the Paris 
Agreement on matters relating to technology  development and transfer in accordance with 
the scope of and modalities for the periodic assessment6 with a view to it being completed by 
the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at 
its ninth session (202 7). 
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2022  
 
 4 Expressed in decision 1 5/CMA.3, para. 13.  
 5 Available at: https://www.ctc -n.org/about -ctcn/founding -documents .  
 6 Contained in decision 16/CMA.1, annex.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
30  Decision 21/CMA.4  
Annual technical progress report of the Paris Committee on 
Capacity -building for 2022  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
Recalling  decisions 3/CMA.2 and 18/ CMA .3, 
1. Welcomes the annual technical progr ess report of the Paris Committee on Capacity -
building for 20221 and takes note  of the recommendations therein;2 
2. Invites Parties, as appropriate, the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism, the 
constituted bodies under the Paris Agreement, United Nations organizations, observers and 
other stakeholders to consider the recommendations referred to in paragraph 1 above and to 
take any necessary action, as appropriate and in accordance with their mandates;  
3. Acknowledges  the progress of the Paris Committe e on Capacity -building in delivering 
on its mandate to address gaps and needs, both current and emerging, in implementing 
capacity -building in developing country Parties and further enhancing capacity -building 
efforts, including with regard to coherence an d coordination of capacity -building activities 
under the Paris Agreement;  
4. Also acknowledges  the progress of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building  in 
implementing its workplan  for 2021 –20243 on the basis of the priority areas and activities set 
out in the annex to decision 9/CP.25  and referred to in paragraph 4 of decision 3/CMA.2 ; 
5. Welcomes the new monitoring and evaluation framework of the Paris Committee on 
Capacity -building, as well as the  findings from the monitoring and evaluation of the outputs, 
outcomes, and impact and effectiveness of its workplan activities between September 2021 
and July 2022;4 
6. Also welcomes  the work of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building in relation to 
enhanci ng coherence and coordination of capacity -building activities under the Paris 
Agreement, including its collaboration with constituted bodies and other stakeholders in this 
regard;  
7. Takes note  of the synthesis report of the Paris Committee on Capacity -buildi ng for the 
technical assessment component of the first global stocktake and the conclusions therein;5 
8. Welcomes  the launch of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building toolkit to assess 
capacity -building gaps and needs to implement the Paris Agreement6 and invites  Parties and 
relevant institutions to consider using the toolkit to support their capacity gaps and needs 
assessment efforts;  
9. Welcomes  the continued collaboration of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building 
with Parties and non -Party stakeholders on capacity -building for climate action, as well as 
on addressing cross -cutting issues, including human rights, gender responsiveness, youth, 
Action for Climate Empowerment and indigenous peoples’ knowledge, such as through the 
PCCB Network, the informal c oordination group for capacity -building under the Convention 
and the Paris Agreement, the Durban Forum on capacity -building, the Capacity -building Hub 
and social media outreach;  
 
 1 FCCC/SBI/2022/14.  
 2  FCCC/SBI/2022/14, chap. III. 
 3 FCCC/SBI/2020/13 , annex I.   
 4 FCCC/SBI/2022/14, annex I.  
 5 Available at https://unfccc.int/documents/461613 ; the conclusions are contained in chap. V.  
 6 Paris Committee on Capacity -building. 2022. PCCB Toolkit to assess capacity building gaps and 
needs to implement the Paris Agreement . Bonn: UNFCCC. Available at 
https://unfccc.int/documents/439554 . FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 31 10. Takes note of the 2023 focus area of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building of 
capacity -building support for adaptation, with a focus on addressing gaps and needs related 
to formulating and implementing national adaptation plans;7 
11. Notes that capacity gaps and needs still exist in developing countries pertaining to the 
implementat ion of the Paris Agreement;  
12. Invites  Parties and relevant institutions, as appropriate, to provide support and 
resources to the Paris Committee on Capacity -building for implementing its workplan for 
2021 –2024 in the light of the aim of the Committee established in decision 1/CP.21.  
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2022  
 
 7 See document FCCC/S BI/2022/14, para. 14. FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
32    Decision 22/CMA.4  
  Action plan under the Glasgow work programme on Action 
for Climate Empowerment  
The Conference of the Parties and  the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement , 
Recalling  Articles 4 and 6 of the Convention and Article 12 of the Paris Agreement,  
Acknowledging  that cli mate change is a common concern of humankind, Parties 
should, when taking action to address climate change, respect, promote and consider their 
respective obligations on human rights, the right to health, the rights of indigenous peoples, 
local communities , migrants, children, persons with disabilities and people in vulnerable 
situations and the right to development, as well as gender equality, empowerment of women 
and intergenerational equity,  
Recalling  decisions 18/CP.26, 17/CMA.1 and 22/CMA.3,  
Also re calling  decisions 1/CP.26 and 1/CMA.3, in which Parties were urged to swiftly 
begin implementing the Glasgow work programme on Action for Climate Empowerment, 
respecting, promoting and considering their respective obligations on human rights, as well 
as gender eq uality and empowerment of women,  
1. Adopt  the four -year action plan under the Glasgow work programme on Action for 
Climate Empowerment, contained in the annex, which focuses on immediate action through 
short -term, clear and time -bound activities, guided by th e priority areas of the Glasgow work 
programme (policy coherence; coordinated action; tools and support; and monitoring, 
evaluation and reporting), taking into account the six elements of Action for Climate 
Empowerment1 in a balanced manner;  
2. Recognize  that the six elements of Action for Climate Empowerment and the priority 
areas of the Glasgow work programme are interconnected in nature and are equally relevant 
and fundamental to the achievement of and progress in climate action;  
3. Emphasize that the action plan should be implemented in an inclusive, 
intergenerational and gender -responsive manner;  
4. Recall that, under the Glasgow work programme:2 
(a) Parties and relevant non -Party stakeholders were invited to engage in and 
support implementation of the Glas gow work programme while maintaining a country -driven 
approach;  
(b) Multilateral and bilateral institutions and organizations, including the 
operating entities of the Financial Mechanism, as appropriate, were invited to provide 
financial support for Action for  Climate Empowerment activities;  
(c) Intergovernmental and non -governmental organizations in a position to do so 
were encouraged to provide technical or financial support for Action for Climate 
Empowerment activities;  
(d) The secretariat was requested to promote p artnerships with other 
organizations, the private sector and donors in order to support implementation of the 
Glasgow work programme;  
5. Affirm  that the mandates referred to in paragraph 4 above also apply in the context of 
the action plan;  
 
 1 Education, training, public awareness, public participation, public access to information and 
international cooperation on climate change.  
 2 Decisions 18/CP.26, paras. 5, 6, 9 and 10; and 22/CMA.3, paras. 5, 6, 9 and 10.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 33 6. Take note  of the a nnual summary report by the secretariat on progress in implementing 
activities under the Glasgow work programme;3 
7. Request the secretariat to include in each annual summary report under the Glasgow 
work programme information on materials, resources and fin dings as set out in the action 
plan, such as information on progress in implementing activities A.1, A.2, B.1, C.2, C.3 
and D.1; 
8. Invite  Parties and non -Party stakeholders to submit to the secretariat annually for the 
duration of the action plan , via the su bmission portal ,4 suggestions for structuring the annual 
Dialogues on Action for Climate Empowerment, such as proposed speakers and lists of 
guiding questions, so as to enhance the Dialogues with a view to meeting the needs of Parties 
and the broader Acti on for Climate Empowerment community;  
9. Take note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in the annex;  
10. Request  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
 
 3 FCCC/S BI/2022/17.  
 4 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx . FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
34  Annex  
Action plan under the Glasgow work programme on Action 
for Climate Empowerment  
1. This action plan under the Glasgow work programme on Action for Climate 
Empowerment (ACE) sets out short -term, clear and time -bound activities in the four priority 
areas of the Glasgow work programme1 (see tables 1 –4)2 aime d at addressing gaps and 
challenges related to implementing the six ACE elements3 and creating opportunities to 
accelerate their implementation.  
2. Parties, the secretariat, UNFCCC constituted bodies and relevant organizations are 
invited to undertake the ac tivities set out in the ACE action plan, as appropriate.  
3. The ACE action plan will be undertaken in such a manner as to advance 
implementation of all six ACE elements in a balanced manner.  
A. Priority areas  
4. The objectives of the priority areas4 are set out i n paragraphs 5 –8 below.  
B. Policy coherence  
5. To strengthen coordination of work under ACE, recognizing that activities related to 
ACE are also carried out under workstreams that are part of the UNFCCC process, as well 
as under frameworks and processes of the U nited Nations system and in multiple sectors and 
strategies at the national level.  
C. Coordinated action  
6. To continue to build long -term, strategic, operational, multilevel, multi -stakeholder, 
intergenerational partnerships that bring together different expert ise, resources and 
knowledge to accelerate ACE implementation.  
D. Tools and support  
7. To enhance access to tools and support for building capacity and raising awareness 
among Parties, national ACE focal points and non -Party stakeholders with regard to ACE.  
E. Moni toring, evaluation and reporting  
8. To strengthen monitoring, evaluation and reporting of the implementation of all six 
ACE elements at all levels, according to Parties’ specific priorities, needs and national 
circumstances.  
 
 
 1 See decision 18/CP.26, annex, chap. III; and 22/CMA.3, annex, chap. III . 
 2 Abbreviations used in the tables: COP = Conference of the Parties, SB = sessions of the subsidiary 
bodies.  
 3 See decision 18/CP.26, annex, chap. IV ; and 22/CMA, annex, chap. IV . 
 4 As per decisions 18/CP.26, annex, paras. 6, 9, 11 and 15; and 22/CMA.3, annex, paras. 6, 9, 11 
and 15.  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 35 
 
Table 1  
Priority area A: policy coherence  
Activity  Responsible entity or entities  Timeline  Deliverables/outputs  Level of 
implementation  
A.1 Strengthening coordination of ACE 
work under the UNFCCC  Secretariat  Ongoing to 
COP 31 
(2026)  Identifying good practices for integrating the six ACE elements 
into the work of the UNFCCC constituted bodies and reporting 
thereon in the annual summary report under the Glasg ow work 
programme  International  
Leading: secretariat  
Contributing: UNFCCC 
constituted bodies, including 
the Facilitative Working Group 
of the Local Communities and 
Indigenous Peoples Platform, 
Parties, relevant organizations  SB 62  
(June 2025)  Organizing a joint session with representatives of the UNFCCC 
constituted bodies and all work programmes under the 
UNFCCC at the ACE Dialogue to discuss ways of enhancing 
understanding of the role of children and youth and indigenous 
peoples in acceleratin g ACE implementation and promoting 
intergenerational knowledge -sharing in the context of their 
work  International  
A.2 Strengthening integration of ACE into 
the development and implementation of 
national climate policies, plans, strategies 
and action  Secretariat  Ongoing to 
COP 31 
(2026)  Identifying good practices for integrating the ACE elements 
into national climate change policies, plans, strategies and 
action, including the considerations reflected in the eleventh 
preambular paragraph of the Paris A greement – which, 
acknowledging that climate change is a common concern of 
humankind, states that Parties should, when taking action to 
address climate change, respect, promote and consider their 
respective obligations on human rights, the right to health,  the 
rights of indigenous peoples, local communities, migrants, 
children, persons with disabilities and people in vulnerable 
situations and the right to development, as well as gender 
equality, empowerment of women and intergenerational equity 
– in the con text of ACE, and reporting thereon in the annual 
summary report under the Glasgow work programme  International  
 Secretariat  SB 62  
(June 2025)  Holding an interactive workshop at the ACE Dialogue in 2025 
and also at the regional level prior to COP 31 (2026) on 
developing and implementing national climate change policies, 
plans, strategies and action using a clear, inclusive, 
intergenerational and gender -responsive approach  International, 
regional  
 Relevant organizations  Ongoing to 
COP 31 
(2026)  Facilitating voluntary peer -to-peer exchanges that serve to 
provide technical and substantive guidance to national ACE 
focal points for engaging in relevant national processes and 
policies, such as national ACE strategies, according to national 
circumstances  International, 
regional   
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
36  
 
Table 2  
Priority area B: coordinated action  
Activity  Responsible entity or entities  Timeline  Deliverables/outputs  Level of 
implementation  
B.1 Enhancing regional cooperation 
through virtual and in -person regional 
dialogues, workshops and consultations, 
prior to the ACE Dialogues, taking 
advantage of existing forums, such as the 
regional collaboration centres and regional 
climate weeks, as appropriate, to enhance 
implementation of the Glasgow work 
programme at the regional level as well as 
local ACE hubs building on local 
initiatives  Leading: relevant 
organizations, Parties  
Contributing: s ecretariat  Ongoing to 
COP 31 
(2026)  Sharing experience and good practices from virtual and in -
person regional dialogues, workshops and consultations prior to 
the ACE Dialogues, as appropriate  
Presenting the outcomes of regional activities at the ACE 
Dialog ues and reporting thereon in the annual summary report 
under the Glasgow work programme and ACE newsletters  Regional  
B.2 Promoting the development of 
regional and local networks and platforms 
that support ACE activities at the regional, 
national and local level, encouraging the 
involvement of youth, women, academics, 
children, traditional leaders and 
indigenous peoples in developing and 
implementing ACE activities and 
providing capacity -building in this regard  Leading: secretariat  
Contributing: Partie s, national 
ACE focal points, relevant 
organizations  Ongoing to 
COP 31 
(2026)  Increased peer -to-peer exchange among national ACE focal 
points about ACE activities carried out at the national level 
through, inter alia, the ACE Dialogues, the regional climat e 
weeks and informal virtual networking meetings organized by 
the secretariat  International, 
regional  
Table 3  
Priority area C: tools and support  
Activity  Responsible entity or entities  Timeline  Deliverables/outputs  Level of 
implementation  
C.1 Building and strengthening the 
capacity and skills of national ACE focal 
points  Leading: secretariat  
Contributing: Parties, national 
ACE focal points, relevant 
organizations  Ongoing to 
COP 31 
(2026)  Providing capacity -building opportunities for national AC E 
focal points, including at the ACE Dialogues and the regional 
climate weeks  International, 
regional  
C.2 Meaningfully including youth in and 
engaging with them on climate action at 
all levels and facilitating the inclusive 
participation of, inter alia, children, Relevant organizations, Parties  Ongoing to 
COP 31 
(2026)  Providing capacity -building opportunities for youth with a 
focus on decision -making and implementing climate action at 
the national and international level according to national 
circumstances  International, 
national   
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 37 
 
Activity  Responsible entity or entities  Timeline  Deliverables/outputs  Level of 
implementation  
women, indigenous peoples and persons 
with disabilities, in climate action, 
according to natio nal circumstances  Leading: secretariat, relevant 
organizations  
Contributing: youth and youth 
organizations  Ongoing to 
COP 31 
(2026)  Providing opportunities for youth to present at ACE Dialogues 
and regional climate weeks to highlight the leadership role that 
youth play in climate action  
Allowing youth to participate in networking sessions and 
capacity -building workshops for national ACE focal points  International, 
regional  
 Leading: secretariat  
Contributing: relevant 
organizations  SB 60 
(June  2024)  Mapping and collating existing guidelines and good practices in 
the annual summary report under the Glasgow work 
programme with respect to child education on and 
empowerment in climate action, with special consideration 
given to gender equality and inclusion of persons with 
disabilities  International  
C.3 Enhancing multilevel action by 
national ACE focal points and non -Party 
stakeholders, including representatives of 
civil society organizations, youth -led and 
youth -inclusive organizations, 
community -based organizations, local 
communities and indigenous peoples  Leading: secretariat  
Providing input: Parties, 
relevant organizations, 
multilateral and bilateral 
financial institutions  Ongoing to 
COP 31 
(2026)  Reporti ng in the annual summary report under the Glasgow 
work programme on the provision of support, including 
financial support, for the participation of national ACE focal 
points and non -Party stakeholders, including representatives of 
civil society organizatio ns and community -based organizations, 
in international meetings such as the ACE Dialogues and the 
sessions of the subsidiary bodies and the Conference of the 
Parties  International  
Leading: secretariat, relevant 
organizations, multilateral and 
bilateral financial institutions  
Contributing: national ACE 
focal points, UNFCCC 
constituted bodies  SB 60 
(June  2024)  Organizing an expert -run session on how to write strong project 
proposals at the ACE Dialogues to support the implementation 
of ACE activities  International  
Table 4  
Priority area D: monitoring, evaluation and reporting  
Activity  Responsible entity or entities  Timeline  Deliverables/outputs  Level of 
implementation  
D.1 Strengthening monitoring, evaluation 
and reporting of the implementation of all 
six ACE elements  Leading: secretariat  
Contributing: relevant 
organizations, research 
community  Ongoing to 
COP 31 
(2026)  Compiling monitoring, evaluation and reporting best prac tices 
and resources and making such information available to Parties 
for use for their reporting on ACE activities on a voluntary 
basis, and reporting thereon in the annual summary report under 
the Glasgow work programme  International   
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
38  
 
Activity  Responsible entity or entities  Timeline  Deliverables/outputs  Level of 
implementation  
D.2 Enhancing understanding of what 
constitutes high -quality and effective 
evaluation of ACE activities, according to 
national circumstances  Secretariat, Parties, national 
ACE focal points, relevant 
organizations, research 
community  Ongoing to 
COP 31 
(2026)  Organizing interactive workshops at all levels, including at the 
ACE Dialogue in 2023, with experts, national ACE focal 
points, youth leaders and other stakeholders to discuss ways of 
assessing the effectiveness of ACE implementation  International, 
regional,  
national  
D.3 Supporting the consideration by the 
Subsidiary Body for Implementation of 
the annual summary report to be prepared 
by the secretariat on progress in 
implementing activities under the 
Glasgow work programme  Secretariat  Ongoing to 
COP 31 
(2026)  Holding information sessions prior to the sessions of the 
Conference of the Parties to present progress in implementing 
activities under the Glasgow work programme as reported in 
the annual summary report  International  
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2022  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 39 Decision 23/CMA.4  
Report of the forum on the impact of the implementation of 
response measures  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
Recalling  decisions 7/CMA.1, 19/CMA.1, 4/CMA.2 and 23/CMA.3,  
1. Welcomes  the Katowice Committee of Experts on the Impacts of the Implementation 
of Response Measures annual reports for 20191 and 2021 –2022;2 
2. Takes note of the conclusion of consideration of the Katowice Committee on Impacts 
annual reports for 2019 and 2021 –2022 by the forum on the impact of the implementation of 
response measures;  
3. Adopts  the recommendations forwarded by the forum contained in sections I –VI 
below, pertaining to:  
(a) Lessons learned and best practices from analysis and assessment of positive 
and negative impacts of the implementation of response measure s by Parties;  
(b) Activities 2, 3, 4, 5 and 11 respectively of the workplan of the forum and its 
Katowice Committee on Impacts;3 
4. Invites  Parties, observer organizations and stakeholders to implement the 
recommendations in sections I –VI below, as applicable;  
5. Requests the forum and its Katowice Committee on Impacts and the secretariat to 
implement the recommendations in sections I –VI below, as applicable;  
6. Appreciates the progress of the Katowice Committee on Impacts in supporting the 
work of the forum on the im pact of the implementation of response measures;  
7. Welcomes  the informal notes prepared by the Chairs of the Subsidiary Body for 
Scientific and Technological Advice and the Subsidiary Body for  Implementation for the 
workshops held in conjunction with the fif ty-sixth sessions of the subsidiary bodies on 
workplan activities 3, 4, 9 and 11;  
8. Appreciates  the technical session on implementing activities 5 and 11 of the workplan 
and expresses its gratitude  to the experts contributing to the work of the forum and its  
Katowice Committee on Impacts;  
9. Also expresses its gratitude  to the Government of Antigua and Barbuda, the 
Government of Senegal, the International Labour Organization and the United Nations 
Development Programme for their in -kind, financial, administrativ e and substantive support 
that contributed to the success of the regional workshops held from  20 to 22 April 2022 in 
St. John’s, Antigua and Barbuda, and from  21 to 23 September 2022 in Saly, Senegal, on 
activity  3 of the workplan;  
10. Notes  that the midterm r eview of the workplan of the forum could not be concluded 
at these sessions, takes note of the informal note on the midterm review4 and requests  the 
forum to continue the midterm review at the fifty -eighth sessions of the subsidiary bodies 
(June  2023);  
 
 1 Document KCI/2019/2/4.  
 2 Document FCCC/SB/2022/6.  
 3 Contained in annex II to decisions 4/CP.25, 4/CMP.15 and 4/CMA.2.  
 4 Available at https://unfccc.int/documents/624251 . The content of the note does not represent 
consensus among Parties.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
40  11. Encourages  Parties to submit views on efforts related to addressing the social and 
economic impacts of response measures via the submission portal5 by February 2023 and 
requests  the secretariat to prepare and submit the compilation of the submissions from t he 
Parties as input to the global stocktake;  
12. Also requests  the secretariat to organize a regional workshop on activity 3 of the 
workplan by the fifty -ninth sessions of the subsidiary bodies (November –December 2023), 
in collaboration with relevant organizat ions and stakeholders, to address regional needs and 
acknowledge the work that has been carried out by the Katowice Committee on Impacts and 
notes  that further regional workshops on activity 3 can be decided by the forum;  
13. Invites  Parties and observers to submit via the submission portal by April 2023 their 
views and guiding questions for the review of the functions, work programme and modalities 
of the forum6 and request s the secretariat to prepare the summary of the submissions as a 
basis of the discussion of the review, which is to start at the fifty -eighth and conclude at the 
fifty-ninth sessions of the subsidiary bodies;  
14. Takes  note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat re ferred to in paragraphs 3, 11, 12 and 13 above;  
15. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources;  
I. Lessons learned and best practices from analysis and 
assessment of po sitive and negative impacts of the 
implementation of response measures by Parties  
16. Encourages  Parties to consider:  
(a) Developing methodologies and tools, including modelling tools, for the 
assessment and analysis of the impacts of the implementation of respons e measures in 
consultation with technical experts, practitioners and other relevant stakeholders, as 
appropriate;  
(b) Building capacity for development and deployment of methodologies and 
tools, in particular of developing country Parties, to inform and suppor t national climate 
change mitigation and sustainable development priorities and policies;  
(c) Developing more national, regional and sector -specific case studies involving 
the assessment and analysis of the impacts of the implementation of response measures to  
enable an exchange of experience among Parties;  
II. Activity 27 of the workplan  
17. Encourages  Parties to invest in the early planning of just transition policies that are 
inclusive and based on stakeholder engagement;  
18. Also encourages  countries at very low levels of economic development to prioritize 
getting the fundamentals right prior to undertaking economic  diversification, noting that , as 
countries develop, multiple diversification paths become available ; 
19. Requests  the secretariat, w hile noting that national circumstances differ, to conduct 
peer-to-peer learning, where possible, to facilitate planning and implementation of effective 
policies;  
 
 5 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx . 
 6 Activity e of the workplan as contained in annex II to decisions 4/CP.25, 4/CMP.15 and 4/CMA.2.  
 7 Identify country -driven strategies and best practices on just transition of the workforce and creation of 
decent work and quality jobs and on economic diversification and transformation focusing on 
challenges and  opportunities from the implementation of low greenhouse gas emission policies and 
strategies towards the achievement of sustainable development.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 41 III. Activity 38 of the workplan  
20. Encourages  Parties to:  
(a) Consider the availability of country -level expertise, training, support and 
consultancy services when selecting a tool or methodology for assessing the impacts of the 
implementation of response measures;  
(b) Invest in data collection in line with national and international standards (for 
example, the  United Nations System of National Accounts or the System of Environmental -
Economic Accounting);  
(c) Establish capacity -building partnerships and networks for increasing the 
representation of developing countries in the use and development of impact assessment  tools 
and methods for assessing the impacts of the implementation of response measures;  
(d) Consider both qualitative and quantitative methods for assessing the impact of 
the implementation of response measures;  
21. Requests  the forum and its Katowice Committee o n Impacts to:  
(a) Facilitate the enhancement of the capacity of Parties, in particular developing 
country Parties, to develop and use impact assessment methodologies and tools for 
conducting their own assessments and analyses of the impacts of response measures, 
including on decent work and quality jobs, and economic, social, environmental, domestic, 
cross -border, positive and negative impacts; this includes facilitating the development of case 
studies as appropriate and the organization of targeted regi onal hands -on training workshops;  
(b) Develop and maintain a web -based user interface for selecting tools and 
methodologies and promote its use among Parties and stakeholders, as appropriate; a user 
manual for the interface could also be developed;  
22. Also reques ts the secretariat to regularly update the existing database of tools and 
methodologies suitable for assessing the impacts of the implementation of response 
measures, as needed and as appropriate;  
IV. Activity 49 of the workplan  
23. Encourages  Parties to:  
(a) Foster international cooperation to identify and share best practices and 
experience of countries that have successfully diversified their economies;  
(b) Identify barriers, domestic and non -domestic alike, as well as ways in which 
the international community could fa cilitate the sustainable economic development of all 
Parties;  
24. Requests  prioritization of the developing and sharing of case studies by Parties and 
experts, in particular on developing country Parties, on both just transition and economic 
diversification an d transformation in order to understand the opportunities and challenges 
faced in their planning and implementation;  
25. Also r equests  facilitation of the development of robust assessment tools and 
methodologies that can capture a range of multidimensional imp acts of the implementation 
of response measures;  
 
 8 Facilitate the development, enhancement, customization and use of tools and methodologies for 
modelling and  assessing the impacts of the implementation of response measures, including 
identifying and reviewing existing tools and approaches in data -poor environments, in consultation 
with technical experts, practitioners and other relevant stakeholders.  
 9 Enhanc e the capacity and understanding of Parties, through collaboration and input from 
stakeholders, on the assessment and analysis of the impacts of the implementation of response 
measures to facilitate the undertaking of economic diversification and transform ation and just 
transition.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
42  26. Encourages  relevant agencies, financial institutions and UNFCCC constituted bodies 
to enhance support for addressing issues related to the assessment and analysis of the impacts 
of the implementation of miti gation actions, policies and programmes, including nationally 
determined contributions and long -term low -emission development strategies, with a view to 
addressing the adverse impacts and maximizing opportunities;  
27. Also encourages  relevant agencies to enhan ce and develop their existing training 
frameworks and modules on assessment and analysis so that they can be used for country -
level training programmes and for developing impact assessment tools and methods;  
V. Activity 510 of the workplan  
28. Encourages Parties to: 
(a) Promote partnerships in research and development, including identifying risks 
and opportunities, and peer -to-peer learning involving relevant national and international 
stakeholders from public and private sectors, as well as civil society, local commu nities and 
indigenous peoples, youth, workers and research and academia in new industries and 
businesses;  
(b) Promote inter - and intracountry exchange of experience, best practices, 
research outcomes and learning on new industries and businesses, including by identifying 
relevant skills, making best use of existing knowledge and capabilities, and developing new 
skills through targeted training, retooling, retraining and reskilling;  
(c) Explore new technologies, carbon capture, utilization and storage, hydrogen 
and artificial intelligence tools to maximize the positive and minimize the negative impacts 
of the implementation of response measures;  
(d) Develop regulatory frameworks, as appropriate, for carbon capture, transport, 
utilization and storage, and hydrogen product ion, infrastructure and transport at the national, 
regional or global level, to explore the possibility of standardizing the design and application, 
as appropriate, while ensuring high safety standards;  
(e) Remove barriers and strengthen policy support for car bon capture, utilization 
and storage to drive innovation and deployment to the scale -up, ensuring specific policy 
incentives critical to expanding the market frontier worldwide;  
(f) Collaborate on methodologies for calculating life cycle greenhouse gas 
emissio ns from hydrogen production, as needed, and developing comprehensive and science -
based terminology and relevant standards for hydrogen deployment to promote widespread 
adoption of the hydrogen economy, while also removing barriers;  
29. Also encourages  Parties,  observer organizations and other relevant stakeholders to 
engage the private sector, including small and medium -sized enterprises, to facilitate the 
identification and exchange of experience and best practices to promote the creation of decent 
work and qu ality jobs in new industries and businesses;  
30. Further encourages  Parties and stakeholders to foster collaboration, undertake joint 
pilot activities and programmes, and share knowledge, lessons learned and best practices, 
including from governments, business communities, research and academia, artificial 
intelligence ex perts and civil society groups;  
31. Encourages  relevant stakeholders to undertake economic and financial analyses, 
including assessment of the diversification of investments and business models, for 
investment in the hydrogen economy, and to undertake scientif ic assessments to understand 
the national resource endowment potential for sustainable hydrogen production;  
 
 10 Build awareness and understanding of Parties and other stakeholders to assess the economic impacts 
of potential new industries and businesses resulting from the implementation of response measures 
with a view to maximizing the  positive and minimizing the negative impacts of the implementation of 
response measures.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 43 VI. Activity 1111 of the workplan  
32. Encourages  Parties to undertake more in -depth analysis on the impacts of response 
measures, quantifying the co -benefit s for the response measures, categorizing where the 
co-benefits come from and who the beneficiaries of the co -benefits are, with a view to 
informing integrated climate actions;  
33. Requests  the Katowice Committee on Impacts to enhance the capacity of Parties, in 
particular developing country Parties, to develop and use country -specific tools and 
methodologies for assessing the environmental, social and economic co -benefits of climate 
change policies and actions.  
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
 
 11 Facilitate, exchange and share experiences and best practices in the assessment of the environmental, 
social and economic co -benefits of climate change policies an d actions informed by the best available 
science, including the use of existing tools and methodologies.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add. 3 
44    Decision 24/CMA.4  
  Rules of procedure of the committee to facilitate 
implementation and promote compliance refe rred to in 
Article 15, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement ,  
Recalling  Article 15 of the Paris Agreement and decision  1/CP.21, paragraphs 
102–103, 
Also recalling  the modalities and procedures for the effective operation of the 
committee to facilitate implementation and promote compliance referred to in Article 15, 
paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement  (hereinafter referred to as the Committee),  contained in 
the anne x to decision 20/CMA.1, in particular paragraphs 17 –18, 
Further recalling  the rules of procedure related to the institutional arrangements of 
the Committee , contained in the annex to  decision 24/CMA.3,  
Welcoming  the annual report of the C ommittee to the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement,1  
Noting  with appreciation  the work undertaken by the Committee to date,  
1. Adopts  the rules of procedure of the committee to facilitate implementation and 
promote compli ance referred to in Article 15, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement 
(hereinafter referred to as the Committee)  contained in the annex, in accordance with 
paragraphs 17 –18 of the annex to decision 20/CMA.1, for its effective operation;  
2. Encourages Parties to  ensure sufficient allocation of resources when considering the 
budget of the Legal Affairs division of the secretariat for the biennium 2024 –2025 in support 
to the work of the Committee.  
 
 1 FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/2.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 45 Annex  
  Rules of procedure of the committee to facilitate 
implementation and promote compliance referred to in 
Article 15, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement * 
I. Rule 1: Objective and scope  
1. The objective of these rules of procedure is to facilitate implementation of and 
promote compliance with the provisions of the Paris Agreement.  
2. These rules of procedure shall apply to the co mmittee to facilitate implementation and 
promote compliance referred to in Article 15, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement (the 
Committee), as defined in the annex to decision 20/CMA.1, entitled “Modalities and 
procedures for the effective operation of the  committee referred to in Article 15, paragraph  2, 
of the Paris Agreement” (the modalities and procedures). These rules of procedure shall be 
read together with and in furtherance of the modalities and procedures and will be 
implemented to reflect all prov isions of the Paris Agreement, including its Article 2.  
II. Rule 2: Definitions  
 For the purpose of these rules, the definitions contained in Article 1 of the Paris 
Agreement shall apply. In addition:  
(a) “Alternate member” means an alternate member of the Committ ee; 
(b) “CMA” means the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Paris Agreement;  
(c) “Co-Chair” means a member of the Committee elected as its Co -Chair;  
(d) “Committee” means the committee to facilitate implementation and promote 
complia nce referred to in Article 15, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement;  
(e) “Member” means a member of the Committee;  
(f) “Modalities and procedures” means the modalities and procedures for the 
effective operation of the Committee, contained in the annex to decision 2 0/CMA.1;  
(g) “National focal point” means the focal point of a Party to the Convention, 
designated pursuant to chapter 5 of decision 14/CP.2;  
(h) “Party concerned” means a Party in respect of which the consideration of 
issues relates;  
(i) “Representative” means a pers on duly authorized by the relevant Party, 
organization, constituted body, arrangement or forum under or serving the Paris Agreement 
to represent it;  
(j) “Secretariat” means the secretariat referred to in Article 8 of the Convention, 
which, as per Article 17 of  the Paris Agreement, shall serve as the secretariat of the Paris 
Agreement.  
 
 * Rules 1 and 3 –14 were adopted by decision 24/CMA.3.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
46  III. Rule 3: Members and alternate members  
A. Rule 3.1: Term of service  
1. The term of service of each member and alternate member shall begin on 1 January 
of the calendar year immediately f ollowing their election and end on 31 December of the last 
year of their term.  
2. For each new term pursuant to paragraphs 5 and 8 of the modalities and procedures 
the selection and notification to the secretariat of a member or alternate member shall be 
made by the nominating regional group or constituency, as applicable, for election by the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement (CMA).  
3. When a member or alternate member resigns or is otherwise unable to comp lete the 
assigned term or functions, an expert from the same Party shall be named by that Party to 
replace that member or alternate member for the remainder of the term. That Party may also, 
after consultation with its regional group or constituency, as ap plicable, name an expert from 
another Party in the same regional group or constituency, as applicable, to replace the 
member or alternate member. The Party shall notify the secretariat, in writing, of the name 
and contact details of the nominated member or  alternate member, which will be 
subsequently communicated to the Committee by the secretariat.  
4. If a member or alternate member is temporarily unable to serve in the Committee, the 
Committee shall, at the request of that member or alternate member, invite the naming of an 
expert from the same Party by that Party in consultation with the regional group or 
constituency, as applicable, to replace the member or alternate member in an ad interim 
capacity for a period of up to one year from the date of that reque st. 
B. Rule 3.2: Role of alternate members  
1. Subject to these rules, alternate members are entitled to participate in the proceedings 
of the Committee, without the right to vote.  
2. An alternate member may cast a vote only if acting as the member.  
3. In the absence o f a member from all or part of a meeting of the Committee, their 
alternate shall act as the member.  
4. If a member’s seat is vacant, or a member resigns or is otherwise unable to complete 
their assigned term or functions, their alternate shall act as the memb er of the Committee, ad 
interim, until the member is formally elected or replaced in accordance with paragraph 9 of 
the modalities and procedures and rule 3.1, paragraph 3, above.  
C. Rule 3.3: Duties and conduct1 
1. Members and alternate members shall perform a ny duties and exercise any authority 
in an honourable, independent, impartial and conscientious manner, abiding by the Code of 
Conduct for UNFCCC conferences, meeting and events2 and the Code of Ethics for elected 
and appointed officers,3 including amended, revised and replaced versions of the same, which 
would be applicable mutatis mutandis to the Committee.  
 
 1 Rule 3.3 of the rules of procedure is to be applied to members and alt ernate members of the 
Committee in a manner that respects their duties and conduct as civil servants, as applicable, and the 
Code of Ethics for elected and appointed officers (available at 
 https://unfccc.int/sites/default/files/resource/Code%20of%20Ethics%20for%20elected%20and%20  
appointed%20officers.pdf ), as endorsed by the Bureau of the Conference of the Parties on 30 
Novemb er 2018, is subject to further consideration and adoption by the governing bodies.  
 2 Available at  https://unfccc.int/sites/default/files/resource/Code_of_Conduct_E nglish.pdf . 
 3 Available at https://unfccc.int/sites/default/files/resource/Code%20of%20Ethics%20for%  
20elected%20and%20appointed%20officers.pdf . FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 47 2. Members and alternate members of the Committee shall respect the obligation to 
preserve the confidentiality of information received in confidence or identified as such by the 
Committee, in accordance with paragraph 14 of the modalities and procedures.  
3. At the beginning of their service, each member and alternate member shall confirm, 
in writing, that they will perform their duties and e xercise their authority honourably, 
independently, impartially and conscientiously and declare, subject to their responsibilities 
within the Committee, that they will not disclose, even after the termination of their functions, 
any information determined b y the Committee to be confidential that they have obtained by 
reason of their duties in the Committee, and shall disclose immediately any interest in any 
matter under discussion before the Committee that may constitute a real or apparent, personal 
or finan cial conflict of interest or that might be incompatible with the objectivity, 
independence and impartiality expected of a member or alternate member of the Committee 
and shall refrain from participating in the work of the Committee in relation to such matt er. 
D. Rule 3.4: Conflict of interest  
 Members and alternate members must promptly disclose and recuse themselves from 
any deliberations or decision -making where their personal or financial interests may be 
affected, in order to avoid a conflict of interest o r the appearance of one.  
IV. Rule 4: Election, roles and functions of the Co -Chairs  
1. The Committee shall elect from among its members one Co -Chair from a developed 
country Party and one Co -Chair from a developing country Party.  
2. Each Co -Chair shall serve as Co -Chair for the entire three years of their term4 and 
shall serve as Co -Chair during and between Committee meetings.  
3. The Co -Chairs shall coordinate the agreed work of the Committee during and between 
meetings.  
4. If a Co -Chair ceases to be able to carry out their functions, or ceases to be a member, 
a new Co -Chair shall be elected for the remainder of the term.  
5. The Co -Chairs shall share and allocate between themselves responsibility for chairing 
Committee meetings.  
6. If one of the elected Co -Chairs is not able to serve in the capacity of Co -Chair for a 
meeting or in relation to a particular matter, the other Co -Chair shall serve as Chair. If both 
Co-Chairs are unable to serve in their respective capacities, the Committee shall elect a 
member from among those pre sent to serve as Chair for that meeting or in relation to that 
matter, as applicable.  
7. In carrying out their functions, the Co -Chairs shall be guided by the best interests of 
the Committee, in accordance with paragraph 11 of the modalities and procedures.  
8. The Co -Chairs shall be responsible for opening, conducting, suspending, adjourning 
and closing Committee meetings and for dealing with all procedural matters, in accordance 
with paragraphs 15 –16 of the modalities and procedures and these rules of procedure.  
9. The Co -Chairs are responsible for ensuring the observance of these rules of procedure 
and the adopted agenda for each meeting of the Committee.  
10. The Co -Chairs shall rule on points of order and any such determination will be final 
unless a Committee member objects. In that case, the Committee shall consider the course of 
action to be taken.  
11. The Co -Chairs shall present a draft report on each meeting, containing, inter alia, the 
decisions taken at the meeting, for consideration and approval by the Committee.  
 
 4 For a Co -Chair elected in 2020 with a two -year seat on the Committee that term as Co -Chair shall be 
two years.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
48  12. The Co -Chairs may represent the Committee at external meetings and report back to 
the Committee on those meetings. They may agree to delegate that function to other members 
or alternate members.  
13. The Co -Chairs shall carry out any other functions assigned to them through these rules 
of procedure or a decision of the Committee.  
V. Rule 5: Dates, notice and location of meetings  
1. In accordance with paragraph 12 of the modalities and procedures, the Committee 
shall meet at least twice every year. At the first Committe e meeting of each calendar year, 
the Co -Chairs shall propose a schedule of meetings for that calendar year taking into account 
the desirability of holding meetings in conjunction with sessions of the subsidiary bodies 
serving the Paris Agreement, as approp riate.  
2. At each meeting, the Committee will confirm the dates, duration and venue of the 
following meeting.  
3. If changes to the schedule or additional meetings are required, the Co -Chairs shall, 
after consultation with the Committee, request the secretariat t o give notice of any changes 
in the dates of scheduled meetings and/or of the dates of additional meetings to members and 
alternate members, and, to the extent possible, notice of a meeting shall be given at least four 
weeks before the opening of that meet ing. 
4. The Committee shall endeavour to hold its meetings in Bonn, as appropriate, and may 
consider holding meetings virtually on an exceptional basis and when required to advance its 
work, as proposed by the Co -Chairs after consultation with the Committee.  
5. In arranging virtual meetings, the Committee shall pay particular attention to the 
working modalities of such meetings, including the fair and balanced choice of time zones 
of members and alternates members, with the aim of ensuring inclusive and effective  
participation of all members and alternate members.  
6. The secretariat shall notify members and alternate members of the date, duration and 
venue of the meetings and circulate the agenda for the meeting at least five weeks before the 
opening of the meeting.  
VI. Rule 6: Development, transmission and adoption of meeting 
agendas  
1. The Co -Chairs, assisted by the secretariat, shall draft the provisional agenda for each 
meeting of the Committee and transmit it to the Committee no less than five weeks before 
the opening o f the meeting.  
2. The provisional agenda for each meeting shall include, as appropriate:  
(a) Items in accordance with the functions of the Committee as provided in Article 
15 of the Paris Agreement, the modalities and procedures and these rules of procedure;  
(b) Items in accordance with the agreed outcomes of the previous meeting of the 
Committee;  
(c) Items in accordance with paragraph 6 of this rule;  
(d) Items in accordance with the workplan of the Committee and the arrangements 
for the subsequent meeting(s) of the Committee ; 
(e) Items proposed by any member or alternate member subject to paragraph 3 of 
this rule;  
(f) A standing agenda item on budget and finance;  
(g) A standing agenda item on information from the secretariat in relation to the 
submission of reports and communications from Parties to guide the Committee in its FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 49 functions in accordance with paragraphs 20, 22(a –b) and 32 –34 of the modalities and 
procedures . 
3. Additions or changes to the provisional agenda for a meeting may be proposed to the 
Co-Chairs and the secretariat by any member or alternate member and will be incorporated 
into the provisional agenda provided that the member or alternate member gives no tice 
thereof to the Co -Chairs and the secretariat within one week after the transmission of the 
provisional agenda.  
4. The agenda shall be proposed for adoption by the Committee at the beginning of each 
meeting.  
5. Prior to the adoption of the agenda at a meetin g, the Committee may, by consensus, 
decide to add items to, delete items from, or defer or amend items in the provisional agenda 
for that meeting or the provisional agenda for the subsequent meeting, as appropriate.  
6. Any item on the agenda the consideration  of which has not been completed at the 
meeting shall be included in the provisional agenda for the subsequent meeting, unless 
otherwise decided by the Committee.  
VII. Rule 7: Documentation  
1. Documentation for meetings of the Committee shall be made available to the 
Committee at least four weeks before the meeting.  
2. The provisional agenda, the adopted meeting report and any other documentation as 
agreed by the Committee, as appropriate, shall be made publicly available on the UNFCCC 
website, subject to the confiden tiality requirements set out in paragraph 14 of the modalities 
and procedures.  
3. The Committee may use electronic means of communication for the transmission and 
sharing of documentation, without prejudice to other means of communication, as 
appropriate.  
4. The secretariat shall ensure that a secure and dedicated web interface is established 
and maintained to facilitate the work of the Committee.  
VIII.  Rule 8: Quorum  
1. A quorum shall be established, in accordance with paragraph 15 of the modalities and 
procedures, prior  to the commencement of the meeting, taking into account that in the 
absence of a member from all or part of a meeting of the Committee their alternate shall act 
as the member.  
2. A quorum shall be confirmed immediately prior to the adoption of any decision, taking 
into account that an alternate member may cast a vote only if acting as the member.  
3. A member or alternate member may ask for a confirmation of quorum prior to the 
commencement of the meeting or prior to the adoption of any decision by the Committee.  
IX. Rule 9: Decision -making and voting in accordance with 
paragraph 16 of the modalities and procedures  
1. The Committee shall make every effort to reach agreement by consensus. When 
proposing a draft decision for adoption, the Co -Chairs shall ascertain whether consensus has 
been reached.  
2. Efforts by the Co -Chairs to facilitate the reaching of consensus may include:  
(a) Consulting with members and alternates on draft documents, including draft 
decisions, prior to the meeting;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
50  (b) Consulting with members and alternates on the relevant matter during the 
meeting;  
(c) Providing the opportunity for members to state and/or formally record in the 
report on the relevant meeting their reservations regarding a particular decision without 
preventing consensus from being reached.  
3. The Co-Chairs, acting together and in good faith, and following consultations with all 
members and alternate members, shall determine whether all efforts at reaching consensus in 
respect of a particular draft decision have been exhausted.  
4. In making such a dete rmination the Co -Chairs shall take into consideration:  
(a) Whether consultations on the relevant matter have occurred during and/or 
between meetings, including between the Co -Chairs, without consensus being reached;  
(b) Whether the subject matter of the draft deci sion has been considered at prior 
meetings without consensus being reached;  
(c) Whether and how many members have indicated that they cannot join 
consensus on an issue.  
5. If all efforts at reaching consensus have been exhausted, as a last resort, the following 
voting procedures shall apply:  
(a)  Prior to any votes being cast, the Co -Chairs shall provide a final draft decision 
to each member. Such a draft decision shall be the version of the decision that, in the Co -
Chairs’ judgment, was supported by the greatest numb er of members;  
(b) The Co -Chairs retain their right to vote;  
(c) Each member shall have one vote;  
(d) A decision that is voted in favour of by at least three quarters of members 
present and voting shall be considered adopted.  
6. For the purpose of this rule, the phrase “ members present and voting” means members 
and alternate members acting as members present at the meeting at which voting takes place 
and casting an affirmative or negative vote. Members abstaining from voting shall be 
considered as not voting for the purpo se of determining the three -quarters majority.  
7. The Committee may, in writing using electronic means, take decisions between 
meetings for procedural matters or for matters for which it has during a meeting agreed such 
decisions are needed.  
8. In accordance wit h paragraph 7 of this rule, rule 3.2 above and paragraphs 15 –16 of 
the modalities and procedures, the Co -Chairs will circulate a proposed written decision for 
adoption on a no -objection basis within three weeks, after which the proposed written 
decision wi ll be deemed adopted, unless there is an objection. If an objection is received, the 
Co-Chairs will work through the objection with the member or alternate member acting for 
the member, as ascertained by the Co -Chairs. If the objecting member or alternate member 
acting for a member upholds their objection, the proposed written decision will be considered 
by the Committee at the following meeting. If the objection is withdrawn or resolved without 
altering the text of the decision, the decision will be deemed  adopted. The secretariat shall 
circulate to the Committee all written comments and objections.  
9. Decisions adopted by the Committee shall be included in the report on the meeting 
and those decisions adopted pursuant to a vote shall include an indication of the final tally of 
votes together with any comments from dissenting members. Decisions approved between 
meetings shall be recorded in the report on the following Committee meeting.  
10. Decisions of the Committee shall be reasoned and in writing.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 51 X. Rule 10: Exper t advice and information in accordance with 
paragraphs 25(c) and 35 of the modalities and procedures  
1. In accordance with paragraph 35 of the modalities and procedures, the Co -Chairs, at 
the request of the Committee, may, in the course of its work, seek exp ert advice and 
information on behalf of the Committee, and may seek and receive information from 
processes, bodies, arrangements and forums under and serving the Paris Agreement, 
including, as appropriate and in consultation with the Party concerned, by in viting 
representatives of those relevant bodies and making arrangements for them to participate in 
its relevant meetings.  
2. When seeking such expert advice and information, the Committee should, as 
appropriate, take into account the expertise and experience from the region of the Party 
concerned, and may invite expert advice from the Party concerned.  
3. The Committee may in due course develop working arrangements on expert advice as 
appropriate.  
XI. Rule 11: Languages  
1. The working language of the Committee shall be English.  
2. The parts of the meeting of the Committee that are of particular relevance to a Party 
concerned and open to that Party shall be translated into one of the other five official 
languages of the United Nations by the secretariat at the reque st of the Party, subject to the 
availability of dedicated resources.  
3. A representative of a Party concerned may engage with the Committee in the language 
of their choice provided that the Party arranges for the interpretation of the communication, 
whether w ritten or oral, into English.  
4. Submissions from Parties should be made in English. Submissions may be made in 
one of the other five official languages of the United Nations if the Party also provides a 
translation into English.  
XII. Rule 12: Observers  
1. Meetings o f the Committee shall be open to Parties and admitted non -Party observers 
to observe, subject to paragraphs 13 –14 of the modalities and procedures, unless the 
Committee decides to hold the meeting or a part/or parts thereof in a closed session in order 
to, inter alia, protect the confidentiality of information received in confidence in accordance 
with paragraph 14 of the modalities and procedures. Such a decision by the Committee may 
be taken on a case -by-case basis, at any time before or during a meeting.  
2. The secretariat shall inform the Committee before the meeting of any requests to 
attend the meeting received from non -Party observers admitted to the UNFCCC process.  
3. Admitted non -Party observers shall abide by the guidelines for the participation of 
repres entatives of non -governmental organizations at meetings of UNFCCC bodies5 and the 
Code of Conduct for UNFCCC conferences, meeting and events, including amended, revised 
and replaced versions of the same, which would be applied mutatis mutandis to the 
Comm ittee.  
4. Parties and admitted non -Party observers shall leave the meeting if the Committee 
decides to hold a part of the meeting in a closed session.  
5. The parts of the meeting that are open to observers shall be recorded and the recording 
made available on th e UNFCCC website after the meeting, unless the Committee decides 
otherwise.  
 
 5 Available at https://unfccc.int/sites/default/files/guidelines_for_the_participation_of_ngos.pdf . FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
52  6. If, in the course of a meeting, a member or alternate member believes that an observer 
has violated paragraph 3 of this rule, it may request the Co -Chairs to immediately consult th e 
Committee on this issue in a closed session. If, following the consultations, the Co -Chairs 
find in favour of the member or alternate member concerned, the observer concerned shall 
leave the meeting. If the member or alternate member concerned objects to  the finding of the 
Co-Chairs, the Committee shall consider the course of action to be taken.  
XIII.  Rule 13: Secretariat  
1. The secretariat shall support and facilitate the work of the Committee, subject to the 
availability of resources.  
2. Subject to paragraph 1 of this rule, the secretariat shall:  
(a) Make the necessary arrangements for the meetings of the Committee, including 
preparing provisional agendas in consultation with the Co -Chairs, announcing meetings, 
issuing invitations and making available the documents for  the meetings;  
(b) Maintain meeting records and arrange for the storage and preservation of 
meeting documents;  
(c) Make documents available to the public in accordance with rule 7 above and 
paragraph 14 of the modalities and procedures, unless otherwise determined  by the 
Committee;  
(d) Perform any other functions requested by the Committee, consistently with any 
relevant decisions of the CMA;  
(e) Arrange for interpretation at the meeting, as may be required under rule 11.2 
above.  
XIV. Rule 14: Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of 
the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
1. Pursuant to Article 15 of the Paris Agreement, the Committee shall report annually to 
the CMA and may receive guidance from the CMA.  
2. The annual report of the Committee to the CMA shall be made publicly available and 
shall include information on any decision adopted by the Committee, unless otherwise 
decided in accordance with these rules of procedure, and systemic issues identified by the 
Committee, as relevant and appropriate, on the implementa tion of and compliance with the 
provisions of the Paris Agreement.  
3. The Committee may propose amendments to these rules of procedure for 
consideration and adoption by the CMA.  
XV. Rule 15: General guidance  
 The Committee’s work shall be guided by the provisions  of the Paris Agreement, 
including its Article 2, the modalities and procedures, and other relevant decisions of the 
CMA.  
Provisions of the modalities and procedures relevant to rule 15  
“2.  The Committee shall be expert -based and facilitative in nature an d function in 
a manner that is transparent, non -adversarial and non -punitive. The Committee shall 
pay particular attention to the respective national capabilities and circumstances of 
Parties.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 53 “3.  The Committee’s work shall be guided by the provisions of the Paris 
Agreement, including its Article 2.  
“4.  In carrying out its work, the Committee shall strive to avoid duplication of 
effort, shall neither function as an enforcement or dispute settlement mechanism, nor 
impose penalties or sanctions, and shall r espect national sovereignty.  
“19.  In exercising its functions referred to in paragraphs 20 and 22 below, and 
subject to these modalities and procedures, the Committee shall apply the relevant 
rules of procedure to be developed pursuant to paragraphs 17 an d 18 above and shall 
be guided by the following:  
(a)  Nothing in the work of the Committee may change the legal character 
of the provisions of the Paris Agreement;  
(b)  In considering how to facilitate implementation and promote 
compliance, the Committee s hall endeavour to constructively engage with and consult 
the Party concerned at all stages of the process, including by inviting written 
submissions and providing opportunities to comment;  
(c)  The Committee shall pay particular attention to the respectiv e national 
capabilities and circumstances of Parties, recognizing the special circumstances of the 
least developed countries and small island developing States, at all stages of the 
process, in accordance with the provisions of the Paris Agreement, includi ng in 
determining how to consult with the Party concerned, what assistance can be provided 
to the Party concerned to support its engagement with the Committee, and what 
measures are appropriate to facilitate implementation and promote compliance in each 
situation;  
(d)  The Committee should take into account the work being undertaken by 
other bodies and under other arrangements as well as through forums serving or 
established under the Paris Agreement with a view to avoiding duplication of 
mandated work;  
(e)  The Committee should take into account considerations related to the 
impacts of response measures.”  
XVI. Rule 16: Flexibility with regard to timelines, in accordance 
with paragraph 26 of the modalities and procedures  
1. When the Committee presents a proposed t imeline to the Party concerned, that Party 
may respond in writing within three weeks to request flexibility with regard to the proposed 
timeline, setting out the reasons for the request. Thereafter, the Committee, in consultation 
with the Party concerned, shall set the final timeline on the basis of paragraph 2 below.  
2. The Committee will accord flexibility with regard to timelines of the procedures under 
Article 15 of the Paris Agreement to those Parties that request it in writing with a view to 
meeting the request of the Party concerned to the extent that the Committee deems 
appropriate, paying particular attention to the respective national capabilities and 
circumstances of the Party concerned, and the reasons set out in the request of that Party.  
3. If the Co mmittee receives no request for flexibility with regard to timelines within 
three weeks, the proposed timeline shall be deemed to be the final one. The secretariat shall 
produce in this regard a communication to the Party concerned.  
Provisions of the modalities and procedures relevant to rule 16  
“26. The Committee will accord flexibility with regard to timelines of the 
procedures under Article 15 as may be needed by Parties, paying particular attention 
to their respective national capabilities and circ umstances.”  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
54  XVII.  Rule 17: Initiation of a consideration of issues, in accordance 
with paragraphs 20 –21 of the modalities and procedures  
A. Rule 17.1: Requirements for a written submission from a Party, in 
accordance with paragraph 20 of the modalities and procedur es 
1. A Party making a written submission to the Committee with respect to its own 
implementation of and/or compliance with any provision of the Paris Agreement shall send 
the written submission to the Committee through the secretariat by electronic means.  
2. The written submission shall be communicated by the national focal point and contain, 
at a minimum:  
(a) The name of the Party making the submission;  
(b) A statement identifying the issue with respect to the Party’s own 
implementation of and/or compliance with the re levant provision(s) of the Paris Agreement;  
(c) An indication of the relevant provisions of the Paris Agreement and any related 
decisions of the CMA that provide the basis for the Party’s submission in relation to its own 
implementation and/or compliance.  
3. The submission should also contain, inter alia:  
(a) Additional information and supporting documentation that the Party considers 
is material and sufficient to the issue with respect to its own implementation of and/or 
compliance with the relevant provision(s) of t he Paris Agreement, which may include, as 
appropriate, information on:  
(i) The cause of the challenges faced by the Party in its implementation of and/or 
compliance with the relevant provision(s);  
(ii) Relevant national capabilities and circumstances, including inf ormation on 
relevant capacity constraints, needs or challenges;  
(iii) Access to finance, technology and capacity -building support that has been 
sought or received to address any relevant capacity constraints, needs or challenges;  
(b) Where applicable, any action req uested of the Committee, consistent with its 
mandate as defined in the modalities and procedures;  
(c) A list of all relevant documents annexed to the submission.  
B. Rule 17.2: Preliminary examination  
1. Upon receipt of a written submission from a Party to the Committee under paragraph 
20 of the modalities and procedures, the secretariat shall promptly forward the submission to 
the Committee.  
2. Within two months of receipt by the Committee of the forwarded written submission 
from the Party, the Committee shall ini tiate, either in writing using electronic means or at its 
next scheduled meeting, a preliminary examination of the submission in accordance with 
paragraph 21 of the modalities and procedures.  
3. The Committee will undertake the preliminary examination of the submission with a 
view to verifying that the submission contains sufficient information, including on whether 
the matter relates to the Party’s own implementation of or compliance with a provision of the 
Paris Agreement and that it addresses the elements s pecified in rule 17.1 above.  
4. In conducting the preliminary examination, the Committee shall, where needed and 
appropriate, engage with the Party concerned and seek further information.  
5. The preliminary examination of the submission should be completed no la ter than 
three months after the date it was initiated under paragraph 2 above.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 55 6. As soon as possible upon completion of the preliminary examination and on the basis 
of it, the Committee shall, in accordance with rule 9, paragraphs 7 –8, above, decide whether 
to initiate a consideration of issues.  
7. The Committee may decide not to initiate a consideration of issues when it finds that:  
(a) Its consideration of issues would duplicate mandated work being undertaken 
by other bodies and under other arrangements as well as  through forums serving or 
established under the Paris Agreement, taking into account any information received in 
accordance with rule 10 above;  
(b) The Party concerned, upon the request of the Committee, has repeatedly failed 
to present the information reques ted by the Committee within the timelines specified by the 
Committee, and has requested no further flexibility with regard to timelines in accordance 
with rule 16 above;  
(c) The matter contained in the submission from the Party concerned does not 
relate to the  Party’s own implementation of and/or compliance with a provision of the Paris 
Agreement.  
8. The Committee shall promptly notify the Party concerned of its decision. The decision 
shall be reasoned and in writing, in accordance with rule 9, paragraph 10, above . If the 
decision is to initiate consideration, the notification shall be in accordance with rule 20 below.  
9. The decision of the Committee not to initiate a consideration of issues does not 
preclude a later decision of the Committee to initiate a considerat ion of issues on the basis of 
a new written submission from the Party on the same or similar matters, or on the basis of 
paragraph 22 of the modalities and procedures, if applicable.  
10. The Committee’s decision on whether to initiate a consideration of issues  on the basis 
of the preliminary examination, including a summary of the proceedings and reasons for the 
decision, should be recorded in the report of the Committee meeting at which the decision 
was taken. If the decision was taken between Committee meetin gs, it should be recorded in 
the report of the following Committee meeting, in accordance with rule 9, paragraph 9, above.  
C. Provisions of the modalities and procedures relevant to rule 17  
“20. The Committee should consider issues related to, as appropriate,  a Party’s 
implementation of or compliance with the provisions of the Paris Agreement on the 
basis of a written submission from that Party with respect to its own implementation 
of and/or compliance with any provision of the Paris Agreement.  
“21. The Commi ttee will undertake a preliminary examination of the submission 
within the timeline to be elaborated in the rules of procedure referred to in paragraphs 
17 and 18 above with a view to verifying that the submission contains sufficient 
information, including  on whether the matter relates to the Party’s own 
implementation of or compliance with a provision of the Paris Agreement.”  
XVIII.  Rule 18: Initiation of a consideration of issues by the 
Committee, in accordance with paragraph 22(a) of the 
modalities and procedur es 
1. At least four weeks in advance of each scheduled meeting, in accordance with rule 7, 
paragraph 1, above, the secretariat shall make available to the Committee the most up -to-date 
information on:  
(a) Communication and maintenance of nationally determined con tributions by 
Parties in the public registry referred to in Article 4, paragraph 12, of the Paris Agreement;  
(b) Submissions of mandatory reports or communications of information by 
Parties under:  
(i) Article 13, paragraph 7(a), of the Paris Agreement;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
56  (ii) Article 13, paragraph 7(b), of the Paris Agreement;  
(iii) Article 13, paragraph 9, and Article 9, paragraph 7, of the Paris Agreement;  
(c) Participation by Parties in the facilitative, multilateral consideration of 
progress under Article 13, paragraph 11, of the Par is Agreement;  
(d) Submissions of mandatory biennial communications of information under 
Article 9, paragraph 5, of the Paris Agreement via the online portal referred to in decision 
12/CMA.1, paragraph 6.  
2. At each scheduled meeting the Committee will consider th e information provided in 
paragraph 1 above, and on the basis of this information, the Committee will decide to initiate 
a consideration of issues as soon as it finds:  
(a) Under paragraph 22(a)(i) of the modalities and procedures, that a Party has not 
communic ated a nationally determined contribution under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement 
after the deadline for communication pursuant to relevant decisions of the CMA or has failed 
to maintain in the public registry referred to in Article 4, paragraph 12, of the Paris 
Agreement, a previously communicated nationally determined contribution;  
(b) Under paragraph 22(a)(ii) of the modalities and procedures, that:  
(i) A Party has not submitted a mandatory report or communication of information 
under Article 13, paragraph 7(a), of the Paris Agreement after the deadline for 
submission pursuant to relevant decisions of the CMA;  
(ii) A Party has not submitted a mandatory report or communication of information 
under Article 13, paragraph 7(b), of the Paris Agreement after the deadline for  
submission pursuant to relevant decisions of the CMA;  
(iii) A developed country Party has not submitted a mandatory report or 
communication of information under Article 13, paragraph 9, and Article 9, paragraph 
7, of the Paris Agreement after the deadline for s ubmission pursuant to relevant 
decisions of the CMA;  
(c) Under paragraph 22(a)(iii) of the modalities and procedures, that a Party has 
not participated in the facilitative, multilateral consideration of progress under Article 13, 
paragraph 11, of the Paris Agr eement and relevant decisions of the CMA;  
(d) Under paragraph 22(a)(iv) of the modalities and procedures, that a developed 
country Party has not submitted a mandatory biennial communication of information under 
Article 9, paragraph 5, of the Paris Agreement af ter the deadline for submission pursuant to 
relevant decisions of the CMA.  
Provisions of the modalities and procedures relevant to rule 18  
“22. The Committee:  
(a) Will initiate the consideration of issues in cases where a Party has not:  
(i) Communicated or  maintained a nationally determined contribution 
under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement, based on the most up -to-date status of 
communication in the public registry referred to in Article 4, paragraph 12, of the 
Paris Agreement;  
(ii) Submitted a mandatory report or communication of information under 
Article 13, paragraphs 7 and 9, or Article 9, paragraph 7, of the Paris Agreement;  
(iii) Participated in the facilitative, multilateral consideration of progress, 
based on information provided by the secretariat;  
(iv) Submitted a mandatory communication of information under Article 9, 
paragraph 5, of the Paris Agreement;”  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 57 XIX. Rule 19: Initiation of a consideration of issues, in accordance 
with paragraph 22(b) of the modalities and procedures  
1. At least four weeks in advance of each scheduled meeting of the Committee, in 
accordance with rule 7, paragraph 1, above, the secretariat shall make available to the 
Committee the final technical expert review reports, prepared under Article 13, paragraphs 
11–12, of the  Paris Agreement and relevant decisions of the CMA that have been issued since 
the date on which the secretariat made available to the Committee documentation for its 
preceding meeting.  
2. For the purpose of paragraph 22(b) of the modalities and procedures, t he Committee 
will identify cases of significant and persistent inconsistencies of the information submitted 
by the Party concerned pursuant to Article 13, paragraphs 7 and 9, of the Paris Agreement, 
with the modalities, procedures and guidelines referred t o in Article 13, paragraph 13, of the 
Paris Agreement, on the basis of the recommendations made in the final technical expert 
review reports, any written comments provided by the Party concerned during such reviews 
and, as needed, information resulting fro m liaising with lead reviewers in accordance with 
decision 5/CMA.3, paragraph 40.  
3. Where the Committee has identified a case of significant and persistent 
inconsistencies, it shall promptly notify in writing the Party concerned in order to seek its 
written consent to engage in a facilitative consideration of issues under paragraph 22(b) of 
the modalities and procedures.  
4. Where the Party concerned provides written consent to the Committee to engage in a 
facilitative consideration of issues, the Committee shall  initiate such facilitative consideration 
of issues at its next meeting.  
5. In its consideration of such matters, the Committee shall take into account Article 13, 
paragraphs 2, 14 and 15, of the Paris Agreement, as well as the flexibilities for those 
develop ing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as provided in the 
provisions of the modalities, procedures and guidelines for the transparency framework for 
action and support referred to in Article 13 of the Paris Agreement as contained  in decision 
18/CMA.1 and its annex, and any subsequent updates adopted by the CMA.  
6. The Committee will consider the need to further develop working arrangements on 
the facilitative consideration under paragraph 22(b) of the modalities and procedures. In th is 
context, the Committee will further develop its understanding of criteria to assess whether 
inconsistencies are significant and persistent as referred to in paragraph 2 above, taking into 
account the information contained in the reports made available u nder paragraph 1 above and 
the experience gained in identifying cases of significant and persistent inconsistencies.  
Provisions of the modalities and procedures relevant to rule 19  
“22. The Committee:  
(b) May, with the consent of the Party concerned, engag e in a facilitative 
consideration of issues in cases of significant and persistent inconsistencies of the 
information submitted by a Party pursuant to Article 13, paragraphs 7 and 9, of the 
Paris Agreement with the modalities, procedures and guidelines ref erred to in Article 
13, paragraph 13, of the Paris Agreement. This consideration will be based on the 
recommendations made in the final technical expert review reports, prepared under 
Article 13, paragraphs 11 and 12, of the Agreement, together with any wr itten 
comments provided by the Party during the review. In its consideration of such 
matters, the Committee shall take into account Article 13, paragraphs 14 and 15, of 
the Agreement, as well as the flexibility provided in the provisions of the modalities,  
procedures and guidelines under Article 13 of the Paris Agreement for those 
developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities.”  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
58  XX. Rule 20: Notification to the Party concerned of the initiation 
of a consideration of issues, in accordan ce with paragraphs 
20 or 22(a) of the modalities and procedures  
1. Where the Committee decides to initiate a consideration of issues in accordance with 
paragraphs 20 or 22(a) of the modalities and procedures and rules 17 and 18 above, 
respectively, it shall p romptly notify the Party concerned. The decision shall be reasoned and 
in writing, in accordance with rule 9, paragraph 10, above.  
2. When notifying the Party concerned of the initiation of a consideration of issues, in 
accordance with paragraphs 20 or 22(a) of the modalities and procedures, the Committee 
shall provide to the Party:  
(a) Relevant information and reports in relation to the issue;  
(b) As much as possible, and as appropriate, the details of any expert advice or 
information that the Committee intends to seek, in accordance with rule 10 above;  
(c) A list of the information items the Committee is requesting the Party concerned 
to provide to the Committee through the secretariat by electronic means;  
(d) The proposed date by which the Committee is requesti ng the Party concerned 
to provide the information referred to in paragraph 2(c) above;  
(e) The proposed date of the meeting at which the Committee intends to consider 
the issues;  
(f) Information for the developing country Parties concerned on the process for 
reque sting financial assistance to enable their necessary participation in the relevant meetings 
of the Committee, in accordance with paragraph 27 of the modalities and procedures;  
(g) An electronic copy of the modalities and procedures and these rules of 
procedure , as well as decisions of the CMA that the Committee considers relevant to the 
consideration of issues.  
3. In the notification, the Committee shall bring to the attention of the Party concerned 
that it may:  
(a) Participate in the discussions of the Committee exc ept during the elaboration 
and adoption of a decision by the Committee;  
(b) Request in writing that the Committee holds a consultation during the meeting 
at which the issues are considered;  
(c) Request flexibility with regard to timelines of procedures in accorda nce with 
paragraphs 19 and 26 of the modalities and procedures, and rule 16 above;  
(d) Provide information to the Committee on its particular capacity constraints, 
needs or challenges, including in relation to support received, for the Committee’s 
considerati on, in accordance with paragraph 29 of the modalities and procedures;  
(e) Request financial assistance to enable its necessary participation in the relevant 
meetings of the Committee in accordance with paragraph 27 of the modalities and 
procedures, where the P arty concerned is a developing country Party.  
4. The Committee shall also inform the Party concerned that all information provided by 
the Party to the Committee that is not marked or declared as confidential will be treated as 
non-confidential and may be made  public.  
5. Following the notification, if the Party concerned makes a written request for 
flexibility with respect to the timelines referred to in paragraph 2(d –e) above, the Committee 
shall set, in consultation with the Party concerned, the final date for t he written response to 
the notification and the date of the meeting, in accordance with rule 16 above.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 59 Provisions of the modalities and procedures relevant to rule 20  
“20. The Committee should consider issues related to, as appropriate, a Party’s 
implement ation of or compliance with the provisions of the Paris Agreement on the 
basis of a written submission from that Party with respect to its own implementation 
of and/or compliance with any provision of the Paris Agreement.  
“22. The Committee:  
(a) Will initi ate the consideration of issues in cases where a Party has not:  
(i) Communicated or maintained a nationally determined contribution 
under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement, based on the most up -to-date status of 
communication in the public registry referred to in Article 4, paragraph 12, of the 
Paris Agreement;  
(ii) Submitted a mandatory report or communication of information under 
Article 13, paragraphs 7 and 9, or Article 9, paragraph 7, of the Paris Agreement;  
(iii) Participated in the facilitativ e, multilateral consideration of progress, 
based on information provided by the secretariat;  
(iv) Submitted a mandatory communication of information under Article 9, 
paragraph 5, of the Paris Agreement;”  
XXI. Rule 21: Procedural aspects of a consideration of is sues by 
the Committee  
A. Rule 21.1: Participation of and consultation with the Party concerned, 
in accordance with paragraphs 25(a –b) and 27 of the modalities and 
procedures  
1. The Party concerned is encouraged to be present at and may participate in the relevan t 
meetings of the Committee, except during the Committee’s elaboration and adoption of a 
decision.  
2. The Committee shall, during its consideration of the issues at the meeting:  
(a) Ensure that all information provided to it by the Party concerned and the 
secreta riat is duly considered;  
(b) Take into account, as appropriate, expert advice and additional information 
sought and received from processes, bodies, arrangements and forums under or serving the 
Paris Agreement, as referred to in paragraphs 25(c) and 35 of the modalities and procedures 
and in accordance with rule 10 above.  
3. Upon request from the developing country Party concerned and subject to the 
availability of financial resources, assistance should be provided in accordance with 
paragraph 27 of the modalities  and procedures to enable the necessary participation of the 
Party in the relevant meetings of the Committee.  
4. The Co -Chairs of the Committee shall ensure that:  
(a) The Party concerned has the opportunity to participate virtually or in person, 
subject to the av ailability of financial resources, in the discussions of the Committee and that 
any requested consultation is held;  
(b) Representatives of relevant bodies and arrangements under or serving the Paris 
Agreement are invited to the relevant meetings of the Committ ee with the agreement of the 
Committee and in consultation with the Party concerned, in accordance with paragraph 25(c) 
of the modalities and procedures and rule 10 above, as appropriate, and are afforded the 
opportunity to address the Committee during its  discussions;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
60  (c) Only members, alternate members and secretariat officials are present during 
the elaboration and adoption of a decision of the Committee.  
B. Rule 21.2: Obtaining additional information and inviting 
representatives of relevant bodies and arrangem ents, in accordance 
with paragraphs 25(c) and 35 of the modalities and procedures  
1. If the Committee decides to seek expert advice in accordance with paragraphs 25(c) 
and 35 of the modalities and procedures, taking into account rule 10 above, it shall:  
(a) Ident ify the specific issue on which it seeks expert advice;  
(b) Identify the experts from whom it seeks advice;  
(c) Set the deadline for the submission of the expert advice.  
2. If the Committee decides to seek and receive information from processes, bodies, 
arrangements and forums under or serving the Paris Agreement in accordance with paragraph 
35 of the modalities and procedures, or to invite representatives of relevant bodies and 
arrangements under or serving the Paris Agreement to participate in its relev ant meetings in 
consultation with the Party concerned, in accordance with paragraph 25(c) of the modalities 
and procedures, taking into account rule 10 above, it shall:  
(a) Define the specific information it seeks;  
(b) Identify which of the processes, bodies, arra ngements and forums under or 
serving the Paris Agreement may be relevant and able to provide such information, in 
consultation with the Party concerned;  
(c) Define the processes to be followed in consultation with the Party concerned, 
including whether to seek  written information or to invite representatives of relevant 
processes, bodies, arrangements and forums under or serving the Paris Agreement to 
participate in the relevant meeting;  
(d) In the case of written information, set the deadline for its submission.  
3. The Committee shall provide a copy of the relevant expert advice and information 
received from processes, bodies, arrangements and forums under or serving the Paris 
Agreement to the Party concerned in advance of the meeting at which the Committee intends 
to consider the issues, in accordance with rules 17 –19 above.  
C. Provisions of the modalities and procedures relevant to rule 21  
“25. With respect to the consideration by the Committee of matters initiated in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 20 or 2 2 above and further to the rules 
of procedure referred to in paragraphs 17 and 18 above:  
(a) The Party concerned may participate in the discussions of the 
Committee, except during the Committee’s elaboration and adoption of a decision;  
(b) If so requested in writing by the Party concerned, the Committee shall 
hold a consultation during the meeting at which the matter with respect to that Party 
is to be considered;  
(c) In the course of its consideration, the Committee may obtain additional 
information as ref erred to in paragraph 35 below or, as appropriate and in consultation 
with the Party concerned, invite representatives of relevant bodies and arrangements 
under or serving the Paris Agreement to participate in its relevant meetings;  
“27. Subject to the ava ilability of financial resources, assistance should be provided, 
upon request, to developing country Parties concerned to enable their necessary 
participation in the relevant meetings of the Committee.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 61 “35. In the course of its work, the Committee may seek  expert advice, and seek and 
receive information from processes, bodies, arrangements and forums under or 
serving the Paris Agreement.”  
XXII.  Rule 22: Measures and outputs  
A. Rule 22.1: Identification of appropriate measures, findings or 
recommendations in accordan ce with paragraphs 28 –31 of the 
modalities and procedures  
1. When identifying appropriate measures, findings or recommendations, the Committee 
shall engage in a dialogue with the Party concerned through written communications and 
through consultations upon th e request of the Party concerned, with the purpose of identifying 
challenges and sharing information, including in relation to accessing finance, technology 
and capacity -building support, as appropriate.  
2. The Committee shall send a copy of its draft measures, draft findings and draft 
recommendations to the Party concerned and shall invite the Party concerned to make 
comments within the time period specified by the Committee.  
3. When deciding on the final measures, findings or recommendations, the Committ ee 
shall take into account the comments received by the Party concerned.  
4. The Committee shall further take into account, where reasonable, other relevant 
factors and circumstances, including expert advice, information from processes, bodies, 
arrangements an d forums under or serving the Paris Agreement, or other information 
communicated by the Party concerned, which may have caused challenges in the 
implementation of and/or compliance with the relevant provision(s) of the Paris Agreement 
by the Party concerne d. 
B. Rule 22.2: Decisions on measures and outputs  
1. Decisions of the Committee on measures taken in relation to the consideration of 
issues, in accordance with paragraphs 20 and 22 of the modalities and procedures, shall 
contain, inter alia:  
(a) The name of the Pa rty concerned and its representative, if any, who engaged 
in consultations with the Committee;  
(b) A summary of the proceedings of the consideration of issues by the 
Committee;  
(c) A summary of the information, expert advice, provisions of the Paris 
Agreement and any relevant decisions of the CMA taken into account in the consideration of 
the issues;  
(d) The measures taken by the Committee in accordance with paragraph 30 of the 
modalities and procedures;  
(e) Reasons for the measures, findings or recommendations taken by th e 
Committee, including why the measures taken by the Committee are appropriate to facilitate 
implementation of and/or promote compliance with the relevant provisions of the Paris 
Agreement by the Party concerned;  
(f) The place and date of the decision.  
2. The sec retariat shall, upon the request of the Committee, transmit the decision to the 
Party concerned. The decision shall be included in the report of the Committee to the CMA, 
except for any parts of it relating directly to information that the Party has marked  as being 
confidential.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
62  3. Comments from the Party concerned regarding any decisions referred to in paragraph 
1 above, shall be attached to the annual report of the Committee to the CMA.  
4. Where the Party provides a written response to the Committee on any deci sions 
referred to in paragraph 1 above, the Committee shall, if appropriate, include the written 
response with the decision on the UNFCCC website and shall refer to that response in its 
annual report to the CMA.  
5. On the basis of its experience gained under this rule, the Committee will further 
develop working arrangements on the measures, findings or recommendations pursuant to 
paragraph 30 of the modalities and procedures, taking into account that such measures, 
findings or recommendations shall be facilita tive in nature and that the Committee functions 
in a manner that is transparent, non -adversarial and non -punitive.  
C. Provisions of the modalities and procedures relevant to rule 22  
“28. In identifying the appropriate measures, findings or recommendations, th e 
Committee shall be informed by the legal nature of the relevant provisions of the Paris 
Agreement, shall take into account the comments received from the Party concerned 
and shall pay particular attention to the national capabilities and circumstances of  the 
Party concerned. Special circumstances of small island developing States and the least 
developed countries, as well as situations of force majeure, should also be recognized, 
where relevant.  
“29. The Party concerned may provide to the Committee inform ation on particular 
capacity constraints, needs or challenges, including in relation to support received, for 
the Committee’s consideration in its identification of appropriate measures, findings 
or recommendations.  
“30. With a view to facilitating impleme ntation and promoting compliance, the 
Committee shall take appropriate measures. These may include the following:  
(a) Engage in a dialogue with the Party concerned with the purpose of 
identifying challenges, making recommendations and sharing information, including 
in relation to accessing finance, technology and capacity -building support, as 
appropriate;  
(b) Assist the Party concerned in the engagement with the appropriate 
finance, technology and capacity -building bodies or arrangements under or serving 
the Paris Agreement in order to identify possible challenges and solutions;  
(c) Make recommendations to the Party concerned with regard to 
challenges and solutions referred to in paragraph 30(b) above and communicate such 
recommendations, with t he consent of the Party concerned, to the relevant bodies or 
arrangements, as appropriate;  
(d) Recommend the development of an action plan and, if so requested, 
assist the Party concerned in developing the plan;  
(e) Issue findings of fact in relation to ma tters of implementation and 
compliance referred to in paragraph 22(a) above.  
“31. The Party concerned is encouraged to provide information to the Committee 
on the progress made in implementing the action plan referred to in paragraph 30(d) 
above.”  
XXIII.  Rule 23:  Systemic issues  
1. Where the CMA requests the Committee to examine issues of a systemic nature, the 
Committee shall initiate consideration of such issues at its next meeting unless otherwise 
requested by the CMA.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 63 2. The Committee may further develop working arr angements for the consideration of 
systemic issues on the basis of experience gained in its work.  
Provisions of the modalities and procedures relevant to rule 23  
“32. The Committee may identify issues of a systemic nature with respect to the 
implementation  of and compliance with the provisions of the Paris Agreement faced 
by a number of Parties and bring such issues and, as appropriate, any 
recommendations to the attention of the CMA for its consideration.  
“33.  The CMA may, at any time, request the Committ ee to examine issues of a 
systemic nature. Following its consideration of the issue, the Committee shall report 
back to the CMA and, where appropriate, make recommendations.  
“34. In addressing systemic issues, the Committee shall not address matters that 
relate to the implementation of and compliance with the provisions of the Paris 
Agreement by an individual Party.”  
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2022  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 10/Add.3  
64  Resolution 1/CM A.4 
Expression of gratitude to the Government of the Arab 
Republic of Egypt and the people of the city of Sharm 
el-Sheikh  
Resolution submitted by the United Arab Emirates  
The Confere nce of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement , 
Having met  in Sharm el -Sheikh from 6 to 20 Novemb er 2022,  
1. Express their profound gratitude to the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt 
for having made it possible for the twenty -seventh session of the Conference of the Parties, 
the seventeenth session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the m eeting of the Parties 
to the Kyoto Protocol and the fourth session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement to be held in Sharm el -Sheikh;  
2. Request the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt to convey t o the city and 
people of Sharm el -Sheikh the gratitude of the Conference of the Parties, the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to th e Paris Agreement for the hospitality and 
warmth extended to the participants.  
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
      
 
GE.22 -03277(E ) 
Conference of the Parties  serving as the meeting  
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
Report of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  on its  
third  session, held in Glasgow from 31 October to  
13 November 2021 
Addendum  
Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its third session  
Contents  
Decision s adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
Decision  Page 
  1/CMA .3 Glasgow Climate Pact  ................................................................................................  2 
  2/CMA.3  Guidance on cooperative approaches referred to in Article 6, paragraph 2,  
   of the Paris Agreement  ..............................................................................................  11 
  3/CMA.3  Rules, modalities and procedures  for the mechanism established by Article 6,  
   paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreement ..........................................................................  25 
  4/CMA.3  Work programme under the framework for non- market approaches referred to in  
   Article 6, paragraph 8, of the Paris Agreement ..........................................................  41  United Nations  FCCC /PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
  
Distr.: General 
8 March  2022 
 Original: English  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
2  Decision 1/CMA.3  
Glasgow Climate Pact  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
 Recalling Article 2 of the Paris Agreement,  
 Also r ecalling decision s 3/CMA.1 and 1/CMA.2,  
 Noting decision 1/CP.26 ,  
 Recognizing the role of multilateralism in addressing climate change and promoting 
regional and international cooperation in order to strengthen climate action in the context of 
sustainable development and efforts to eradicate poverty,  
 Acknowledging the devastating impacts of the coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic and 
the importance of ensuring a sustaina ble, resilient and inclusive global recovery, showing 
solidarity particularly with developing country Parties , 
 Also acknowledging that climate change is a common concern of humankind, Parties 
should, when taking action to address climate change, respect, promote and consider their 
respective obligations on human rights, the right to health, the rights of indigenous peoples, 
local communities, migrants, children, persons with disabilities and people in vulnerable 
situations and the right to develop ment, as well as gender equality, empowerment of women 
and intergenerational equity,  
 Noting the importance of ensuring the integrity of all ecosystems, including in forests, 
the ocean and the cryosphere, and the protection of biodiversity, recognized by some cultures 
as Mother Earth, and also noting the importance for some of the concept of ‘climate justice’, 
when taking action to address climate change ,  
 Expressing appreciation to the Heads of State and Government who participated in 
the World Leaders Summit in Glasgow and for the increased targets and actions announced and the commitments made to work together and with non- Party stakeholders to accelerate 
sectoral action by 2030,  
 Recognizing the important role of indigenous peoples, local communities and civil 
society, including youth and children, in addressing and responding to climate change and highlighting the urgent need for multilevel and cooperative action , 
I. Science  and urgency  
1. Recognizes the importance of the best available science for effectiv e climate action 
and policy making;  
2. Welcomes  the contribution of Working Group I to the Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change  Sixth Assessment Report1 and the recent global and regional reports on the 
state of the climate from the World Meteorological  Organization  and invites  the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change to present its forthcoming reports to the 
Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice i n 2022;   
3. Expresses  alarm and utmost concern that human activities have caused around 1.1 °C 
of warming to date, that impacts are already being felt in every region and that carbon budgets consistent with achieving the Paris Agreement temperature goal are n ow small and  being 
rapidly depleted;  
 
 1 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. 2021. Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science 
Basis. Contribution of Working Group I to the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change . V Mass on-Delmotte, P Zhai, A Pirani, et al. (eds.). Cambridge: Cambridge 
University Press. Available at https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg1/ .  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
 3 4. Recalls Article 2, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement, which provides that the Paris 
Agreement will be implemented to reflect equity and the principle of common but 
differentiated responsibilities and respective capabi lities in the light of different national 
circumstances ; 
5. Stresses the urgency of enhancing ambition and action  in relation to mitigation, 
adaptation and finance in this critical decade to address the gaps in the implementation of the goals of the Paris Agr eement ; 
II. Adaptation  
6. Notes with serious concern  the findings from the contribution of Working Group I to 
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Sixth Assessment Report, including that 
climate and weather extremes and their adverse impacts on people and nature will continue to increase with every additional increment of rising temperatures;  
7. Emphasizes the urgency of scaling up action and support, including finance, capacity-
building and technology transfer, to enhance adaptive capacity, strengthen resilience and reduce vulnerability to climate chan ge in line with the best available science, taking into 
account the priorities and needs of developing country Parties;  
8. Welcomes the adaptation communications and national adaptation plans submitted to 
date, which enhance the understanding and implementati on of adaptation actions and 
priorities; 
9. Urges Parties to further integrate adaptation into local, national and regional planning;  
10. Requests  Parties that have not yet done so to submit their adaptation  communications 
in accordance with decision 9/CMA.1 ahead of the fourth session of the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  (November 2022) so as 
to provide timely input to the global stocktake;  
11. Recognizes the importance of the global goal on adaptation for the effective 
implementation of the Paris Agreement and welcomes the launch of the comprehensive 
two-year Glasgow –Sharm  el-Sheikh work programme on the global goal on adaptation;  
12. Notes that the implementation of the Glasgow –Sharm  el-Sheikh work programme will 
start immediately after the third session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement ; 
13. Invites the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change to present to the Conference 
of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  at its fourth session 
the findings from the contribution of Working Group II to its Sixth Assessment Report, including those relevant to assessing adaptation needs, and calls upon the research 
community to further the understanding of global, regional and local impacts of climate change, response options and adaptation needs ; 
III. Adaptation finance  
14. Notes with con cern that the current provision of climate finance for adaptation 
remains insufficient to respond to worsening climate change impacts in developing country Parties ;  
15. Urges developed country Parties to urgently and significantly scale up their provision 
of climate finance, technology transfer and capacity -building for adaptation so as to respond 
to the needs of developing country Parties as part of a global effort, including for the 
formulation and implementation of national adaptation plans and adaptation 
communications ; 
16. Recognizes the importance of the adequacy and predictability of adaptation finance, 
including the value of the Adaptation Fund in delivering dedicated support for adaptation, and invites developed country Parties to consider multi -annual ple dges; FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
4  17. Welcomes the recent pledges made by many developed country Parties to increase 
their provision of climate finance to support adaptation in developing country Parties in 
response to their growing needs, including contributions made to the Adaptation F und and 
the Least Developed Countries Fund, which represent significant progress compared with previous efforts ; 
18. Urges  developed country Parties to at least double their collective provision of climate 
finance for adaptation to developing country Parties f rom 2019 level s by 2025, in the context 
of achieving a balance between mitigation and adaptation in the provision of scaled- up 
financial resources, recalling Article 9, paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreement;  
19. Calls upon multilateral development banks, other financial institutions and the private 
sector to enhance finance mobilization in order to deliver the scale of resources needed to 
achieve climate plans, particularly for adaptation, and encourages  Parties to continue to 
explore innovative approaches and instruments for mobilizing finance for adaptation from private sources;  
IV. Mitigation  
20. Reaffirms the Paris Agreement temperature goal of holding the increase in the global 
average temperature to well below 2  °C above pre -industrial levels and pursuing efforts to 
limit the temperature increase to 1.5  °C above pre -industrial levels;  
21. Recognizes that the impacts of climate change will be much lower at the temperature 
increase of 1.5  °C compared with 2 °C and resolves to pursue e fforts to limit the temperature 
increase to 1.5  °C; 
22. Recognizes that limiting global warming to 1.5  °C requires rapid, deep and sustained 
reductions in global greenhouse gas emissions, including reducing global carbon dioxide emissions by 45 per cent by 2030 relative to the 2010 level and to net zero around mid -
century as well as deep reductions in other  greenhouse gases;  
23. Also recognizes that this requires accelerated action in this critical decade, on the basis 
of the best available scientific knowledge and equity, reflecting common but differentiated 
responsibilities and respective capabilities in the light of different national circumstances and in the context of sustainable development and efforts to eradicate poverty;  
24. Welcomes efforts by Parties to communicate new or updated nationally determined 
contributions, long- term low greenhouse gas emission development strategies and other 
actions that demonstrate progress towards achievement of the Paris Agreement temperature goal;  
25. Notes with serious concern  the findings of the synthesis report on nationally 
determined contributions under the Paris Agreement,
2 according to which the aggregate 
greenhouse gas emission level, taking into account implementation of all submitted nationally determined contributions, is estimated to be 13.7 per cent above the 2010 level in 2030;  
26. Emphasizes the urgent need for Parties to increase their efforts to collectively reduce 
emissions through accelerated action and implementation of domestic mitigation measures in accordance with Article 4, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement;  
27. Decides to establish a work programme to urgently scale up mitigation ambition and 
implementation in this critical decade and requests the Subsidiary Body for Implementation 
and the Subsidiary Body for S cientific and Technological Advice to recommend a draft 
decision on this matter for consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its fourth session, in a manner 
that complements  the global stocktake ; 
 
 2 See document FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/8/Rev.1 and 
https://unfccc.int/sites/default/files/resource/message_to_parties_and_observers_on_ndc_numbers.pdf .  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
 5 28. Urges Parties that have not yet communicated new or updated nationally determined 
contributions to do so as soon as possible in advance of the fourth session of the Conference 
of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement;  
29. Recalls Article 3 and Article 4 , paragraphs 3, 4, 5 and 11, of the Paris Agreement and 
requests Parties to revisit and strengthen the 2030 targets in their nationally determined 
contributions as necessary to align with the Paris Agreem ent temperature goal by the end of 
2022, taking into account different national circumstances;  
30. Also requests the secretariat to annually update the synthesis report on nationally 
determined contributions under the Paris Agreement,  referred to in decision 1/CMA.2, 
paragraph 10,  to be made available to the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of 
the Parties to the Paris Agreement  at each of its sessions ;  
31. Decides  to convene an annual high- level ministerial round table on pre -2030 
ambition, beginni ng at the fourth session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement;  
32. Urges Parties that have not yet done so to communicate, by the fourth session of the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of  the Parties to the Paris Agreement, long -
term low greenhouse gas emission development strategies referred to in Article 4, paragraph 
19, of the Paris Agreement towards just transitions to net zero emissions by or around mid-century, taking into account di fferent national circumstances ; 
33. Invites Parties to update the strategies referred to in paragraph 32 above  regularly, as 
appropriate, in line with the best available science;  
34. Requests the secretariat to prepare a synthesis report on long -term low greenhous e gas 
emission development strategies referred to in Article 4, paragraph 19, of the Paris Agreement to be made available to the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its fourth session;  
35. Notes the importance of aligning nationally determined contributions with long- term 
low greenhouse gas emission development strategies ; 
36. Calls upon Parties to accelerate the development, deployment and dissemination of 
technologies, and the adoption of policies, to t ransition towards low -emission energy 
systems, including by rapidly scaling up the deployment of clean power generation and energy efficiency measures, including accelerating efforts towards the phasedown of unabated coal power and phase -out of inefficient  fossil fuel subsidies, while providing 
targeted support to the poorest and most vulnerable in line with national circumstances  and 
recognizing the need for support towards a just transition;  
37. Invites  Parties to consider further actions  to reduce by 2030 no n-carbon dioxide 
greenhouse gas emissions, including methane;  
38. Emphasizes the importance of protecting, conserving and restoring nature and 
ecosystems to achieve the Paris Agreement temperature goal , including through forests and 
other terrestrial and marin e ecosystems acting as sinks and reservoirs of greenhouse gases 
and by protecting biodiversity, while ensuring social and environmental safeguards ; 
39. Recognizes that enhanced support for developing country Parties will allow for higher 
ambition in their actions;  
V. Finance, technology transfer and capacity -building for 
mitigation and a daptation  
40. Urges developed country Parties to provide enhanced support, including through 
financial resources, technology transfer and capacity -building, to assist developing countr y 
Parties with respect to both mitigation and adaptation, in continuation of their existing obligations under the Convention and the Paris Agreement, and encourages other Parties to 
provide or continue to provide such support voluntarily;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
6  41. Notes with concern the growing needs of developing country Parties, in particular due 
to the increasing impacts of climate change and increased indebtedness as a consequence of 
the coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic ; 
42. Welcomes the first report on the determination of needs of developing country Parties 
related to implementing the Convention and the Paris Agreement3 and the fourth Biennial 
Assessment and Overview of Climate Finance Flows4 by the Standing Committee on 
Finance;  
43. Emphasizes the need to mobilize climate finance from all sources to reach the level 
needed to achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement, including significantly increasing support for developing country Parties, beyond USD 100 billion per year ; 
44. Notes with deep regret that the goal of deve loped country Parties to mobilize jointly 
USD 100 billion per year by 2020 in the context of meaningful mitigation actions and transparency on implementation has not yet been met and welcomes the increased pledges 
made by many developed country Parties and  the Climate Finance Delivery Plan: Meeting 
the US$100 Billion Goal
5 and the collective actions contained therein ; 
45. Calls upon developed country Parties to provide greater clarity on their pledges 
referred to in paragraph 44 above  through their next bienni al communications under 
Article  9, paragraph 5, of the Paris Agreement ; 
46. Urges developed country Parties to fully deliver on the USD 100 billion goal urgently 
and through to 2025 and emphasizes the importance of transparency in the implementation 
of their p ledges ; 
47. Urges the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism, multilateral development 
banks and other financial institutions to further scale up investments in climate action and calls for a continued increase in the scale and effectiveness of climate finance from all 
sources globally, including grants and other highly concessional forms of finance ; 
48. Re-emphasizes the need for scaled -up financial resources to take into account the 
needs of those countries particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of  climate change and 
in this regard encourages  relevant multilateral institutions to consider how climate 
vulnerabilities should be reflected in the provision and mobilization of concessional financial resources and other forms of support, including s pecial drawing rights ;  
49. Welcomes with appreciation the initiation of deliberations on a new collective 
quantified goal on climate finance  and looks forward  to the ad hoc work programme 
established under decision 9/CMA.3  and to engaging constructively in the actions contained 
therein ; 
50. Underscores the importance of the deliberations referred to in paragraph 49 above  
being informed by the need to strengthen the global response to the threat of climate change in the context of sustainable development and effort s to eradicate poverty and to make finance 
flows consistent with a pathway towards low greenhouse gas emission and climate -resilient 
development taking into account the needs and priorities of developing countries and building on the work of the Standing C ommittee on Finance; 
51. Emphasizes the challenges faced by many developing country Parties in accessing 
finance and encourages further efforts to enhance access to finance, including by the 
operating entities of the Financial Mechanism; 
52. Notes the specific con cerns raised with regard to eligibility and ability to access 
concessional forms of climate finance and re -emphasizes the importance of the provision of 
scaled -up financial resources, taking into account the needs of developing country Parties 
that are par ticularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change;  
 
 3 See document FCCC/CP/2021/10/Add.2– FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/7/Add.2.  
 4 See document FCCC/CP/2021/10/Add.1– FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/7/Add.1.  
 5 See https://ukcop26. org/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/Climate -Finance -Delivery -Plan -1.pdf . FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
 7 53. Encourages relevant providers of financial support to consider how vulnerability to 
the adverse effects of climate change could be reflected in the provision and mobilization of 
concessional fi nancial resources and how they could simplify and enhance access to finance;  
54. Underscores the urgency of enhancing understanding and action to make finance 
flows consistent with a pathway towards low greenhouse gas emission and climate -resilient 
development  in a transparent and inclusive manner in the context of sustainable development 
and poverty eradication;  
55. Calls  upon developed country Parties, multilateral development banks and other 
financial institutions to accelerate the alignment of their financing a ctivities with the goals of 
the Paris Agreement;  
56. Acknowledges the progress made on capacity -building, particularly in relation to 
enhancing the coherence and coordination of capacity -building activities towards the 
implementation of the Convention and the Paris Agreement;  
57. Recognizes the need to continue supporting developing country Parties in identifying 
and addressing both current and emerging capacity- building gaps and needs, and to catalyse 
climate action and solutions to respond;  
58. Welcomes the outcomes of the “COP26 Catalyst for Climate Action” and the strong 
commitments made by many Parties to take forward action on capacity -building;  
59. Also welcomes the joint annual reports of the Technology Executive Committee and 
the Climate Technology Centre and Network for 2020 and 20216 and invites the two bodies 
to strengthen their collaboration;  
60. Emphasizes the importance of strengthening  cooperative action on technology 
development and transfer for the implementation of mitigation and adaptation action , 
including accelerat ing, encouraging and enabling innovation,  and the importance of 
predictable, sustainable and adequate funding from diverse sources for the Technology Mechanism ; 
VI. Loss and damage7 
61. Acknowledges  that climate change has already caused and will increasingly cause loss 
and damage and that, as temperatures rise, impacts from climate and weather extremes, as well as slow onset events, will pose an ever -greater social, economic and environmental 
threat; 
62. Also acknowledges the impor tant role of a broad range of stakeholders at the local, 
national and regional level, including indigenous peoples and local communities, in averting, 
minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change ; 
63. Reiterates the urgency of scaling up action and support, as appropriate, including 
finance, technology transfer and capacity -building, for implementing approaches for 
averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of 
climate change in developing country Parties that are particularly vulnerable to these effects;  
64. Urges developed country Parties, the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism, 
United Nations entities and intergovernmental organizations and other bilateral an d 
multilateral institutions, including non -governmental organizations and private sources, to 
provide enhanced and additional support for activities addressing loss and damage associated 
with the adverse effects of climate change;  
 
 6 FCCC/SB/2020/4 and FCCC/SB/2021/5.  
 7 It is noted that discussions related to the governance of the Warsaw International Mechanism  for Loss 
and Damage associated with Climate Change Im pacts  did not produce an outcome ; this is without 
prejudice to further consideration of this matter.   FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
8  65. Recognizes  the importance of demand- driven technical assistance in building capacity 
to implement approaches to  avert, minimiz e and address loss and damage associated with the 
adverse effects of climate change;  
66. Welcomes  the further operationalization of the Santiago netw ork for averting, 
minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate 
change, including the agreement on its functions and process for further developing its institutional arrangements; 
67. Decides  that the Santiago network will be provided with funds to support technical 
assistance for the implementation of relevant approaches to avert, minimize and address loss 
and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change in developing countries in support of the functi ons set out in paragraph 9 of  decision 19/CMA.3 ; 
68. Also d ecides  that the modalities for the management of funds provided for technical 
assistance under the Santiago network and the terms for their disbursement shall be determined by the process set out in pa ragraph 10 of decision 19/CMA.3 ; 
69. Further  decides  that the body providing secretarial services to facilitate work under 
the Santiago network to be determined in accordance with paragraph 10 of decision 19/CMA.3  will administer the funds referred to in paragraph 67 above ; 
70. Urges  developed country Parties t o provide funds for the operation of the Santiago 
network and for the provision of technical assistance as set out in paragraph 67 above ; 
71. Acknowledges the importance of coherent action to respond to the scale of needs 
caused by the adverse impacts of clima te change;  
72. Resolves to strengthen partnerships between developing and developed countries, 
funds, technical agencies, civil society and communities to enhance understanding of how 
approaches  to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage can be imp roved;  
73. Decides  to establish the Glasgow Dialogue between P arties, relevant organizations 
and stakeholders to discuss the arrangements for the funding of activities to avert, minimi ze 
and address loss and damage associated with the adverse impacts of climat e change,  to take 
place each year at the first session of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation  until it is  
concluded  at its sixtieth  session  (June 2024) ; 
74. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to organize the Glasgow Dialogue 
in cooperation  with the  Executive Committee of the Warsaw International Mechanism  for 
Loss and Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts ; 
VII. Implementation  
75. Resolves  to move swiftly w ith the full implementation of the Paris Agreement;  
76. Welcomes the start of the global stocktake and expresses its determination  for the 
process to be comprehensive, inclusive and consistent with Article 14 of the Paris Agreement and decision 19/CMA.1, in t he light of paragraph 5 above ; 
77. Encourages the high-level champions to support the effective participation of non-
Party stakeholders in the global stocktake;  
78. Recalls  the Katowice c limate package and w elcomes  with appreciation  the completion 
of the Paris Agreement  work programme, including the adoption of decisions on the 
following:  
(a) Common time frames for nationally determined contributions referred to in 
Article 4, paragraph 10, of the Paris Agreement  (decision 6/CMA.3);  
(b) Methodolo gical issues relating to the enhanced transparency framework for 
action and support referred to in Article 13 of the Paris Agreement  (decision 5/CMA.3);  
(c) Modalities and procedures for the operation and use of a public registry 
referred to in Article 4, para graph 12, of the Paris Agreement  (decision 20/CMA.3);  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
 9 (d) Modalities and procedures for the operation  and use of a public registry 
referred to in Article 7, paragraph 12, of the Paris Agreement (decision 21/CMA.3);  
(e) Guidance on cooperative approaches referred  to in Article 6, paragraph 2, of 
the Paris Agreement (decision 2 /CMA.3);  
(f) Rules, modalities and procedures for the mechanism established by Article 6, 
paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreement (decision 3/CMA.3);  
(g) Work programme under the framework for non- market  approaches referred to 
in Article 6, paragraph 8, of the Paris Agreement  (decision 4/CMA.3);  
79. Urges Parties to swiftly make the necessary preparations for ensuring timely reporting 
under the enhanced transparency framework in line with Article 13 of the Pa ris Agreement 
and the timelines set out in decision 18/CMA.1;  
80. Acknowledges  the call from developing countries for increased support for the 
implementation of the enhanced transparency framework under Article 13 of the Paris 
Agreement in a timely, adequate and predictable manner ; 
81. Welcomes  decision 7/CP.26, in which the Global Environment Facility  is encouraged , 
as part of the eighth replenishment process, to duly consider ways to increase the financial 
resources allocated for climate, and recognizes  that the  Capacity -building Initiative for 
Transparency, established pursuant to decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 84, will continue to 
support developing country Parties, upon their request, in building their institutional and technical capacity in relation to  the enhan ced transparency framework ; 
82. Welcomes  decision 12/CMA.3,  in which the Global Environment Facility is requested 
to continue to facilitate improved access to the Capacity -building Initiative for Transparency 
by developing country Parties, and encourages  the G lobal Environment Facility to work 
closely with other institutions and initiatives to enhance these efforts, such as the Taskforce on Access to Climate Finance and the “COP26 Catalyst for Climate Action”;  
83. Takes note of the revised terms of reference of the  Consultative Group of Experts, 
contained in the annex to decision 14/CP.26;  
84. Recognizes the need to take into consideration the concerns of Parties with economies 
most affected by the impacts of response measures, particularly developing country Parties, 
in line with Article 4, paragraph 15, of the Paris Agreement;  
85. Also recognizes the need to ensure just transitions that promote sustainable 
development and eradication of poverty, and the creation of decent work and quality jobs, 
including through making financial flows consistent with a pathway towards low greenhouse 
gas emission and climate -resilient development, including through deployment and transfer 
of technology, and provision of support to developing country Parties ; 
VIII.  Collaboration  
86. Notes the urgent need to close the gaps in implementation towards the goals of the 
Paris Agreement and invites the Secretary -General of the United Nations to convene world 
leaders in 2023 to consider ambition to 2030;  
87. Recognizes the importance of international coll aboration on innovative climate action, 
including technological advancement, across all actors of society, sectors and regions, in contributing to progress towards the goals of the Paris Agreement ; 
88. Also recognizes the important role of non- Party stakeholde rs, including civil society, 
indigenous peoples, local communities, youth, children, local and regional governments and other stakeholders, in contributing to progress towards the goals of the Paris Agreement ; 
89. Welcomes the improvement of the Marrakech Part nership for Global Climate Action
8 
for enhancing ambition, the leadership and actions of the h igh-level champions, and the work 
 
 8  See https://unfccc.int/sites/default/files/resource/Improved%20Marrakech%20Partnership%202021-
2025.pdf .  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
10  of the secretariat on the Non -State Actor Zone for Climate Action platform to support 
accountability and track progress of voluntary initiatives ; 
90. Also welcomes the high- level communiqué9 on the regional climate weeks and 
encourages the continuation of regional climate weeks where Parties and non -Party 
stakeholders can strengthen their credible and durable response to climate change at the 
regional level ; 
91. Urges Parties to swiftly begin implementing the Glasgow work programme on Action 
for Climate Empowerment, respecting, promoting and considering their respective obligations on human rights as well as gender equality and empowerment of women;  
92. Also urges  Parties and stakeholders to ensure meaningful youth participation and 
representation in multilateral, national and local decision -making processes, including under 
the Paris Agreement;  
93. Emphasizes the important role of indigenous peoples’ and local communities’ culture 
and knowledge in effective action on climate change and urges Parties to actively involve 
indigenous peoples and local communities in designing and implementing climate action;  
94. Expresses its recognition  of the important role observer organizations play, including 
the nine non- governmental organization constituencies, in sharing their knowledge, and their 
calls to see ambitious action to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement and in collaborating with Parties to  that end ; 
95. Encourages Parties to increase the full, meaningful and equal participation of women 
in climate action and to ensure gender -responsive implementation and means of 
implementation, which are vital for raising ambition and achieving climate goals ; 
96. Takes  note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in this decision;  
97. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of fi nancial resources.  
12
th plenary meeting  
13 Novemb er 2021
 
 9 Available at https://unfccc.int/regional-climate-weeks/rcw -2021-cop26 -communique .  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
 11 Decision 2/CMA.3  
Guidance on cooperative approaches referred to in Article 6, 
paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreemen t 
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement ,  
Recalling the Paris Agreement , 
Also recalling the tenth preambular paragraph of the Paris Agreement , in which  
Parties take into account the imperatives of a just transition of the workf orce and the 
creation of decent work and quality jobs in accordance with nationally defined 
development priorities , 
Further  recalling the eleventh preambular paragraph of the Paris Agreement , 
acknowledging that climate change is a common concern of humanki nd, Parties should, 
when taking action to address climate change, respect, promote and consider their respective obligations on human rights, the right to health, the rights of indigenous peoples, local communities, migrants, children, persons with disabil ities and people in 
vulnerable situations and the right to development, as well as gender equality, empowerment of women and intergenerational equity,  
Recalling Article 2 of the Paris Agreement and decision 1/CP.21,   
Also recalling Article 4, paragraph 2 , of the Paris Agreement,  
Further recalling Article 6 of the Paris Agreement and decision s 1/CP.21, 
paragraph 36, 8/CMA.1 and 9/CMA. 2, 
Cogni zant of decision 5/CMA.3 ,  
1. Adopts  the guidance on cooperative approaches referred to in Article
1 6, para graph  2, 
as contained in the annex;  
2. Clarifies that the annex requires information to be reported in the structured summary 
pursuant to paragraph 77(d)  of the annex to decision 18/CMA.1 (Modalities, procedures and 
guidelines for the transparency framework for action and support referred to in Article  13 of 
the Paris Agreement), including  the information to be reported as per paragraph 77(d)(iii);  
3. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice  to undertake 
the following work, on the basis of the guidance in the annex, to develop recommendations , 
for consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to th e Paris Agreement at its fourth session (November 2022) , on: 
(a) The special circumstances of the least developed countries and small island 
developing States;  
(b) Elaboration of further guidance in relation to corresponding adjustments for 
multi- year and single -year nationally determined  contributions , in a manner that ensures the 
avoidance of double counting, on:  
(i) Methods for establishing an indicative trajectory, trajectories or budget and for 
averaging, including with respect to relevant indicators, and for cal culating 
cumulative emissions by sources and removals  by sinks;  
(ii) Methods for demonstrat ing the representativeness of averaging for 
corresponding adjustments by quantifying how much the  yearly transaction volume 
differs from the average for the period;  
(c) Consideration of whether internationally transferred mitigation outcomes  
could include emissi on avoidance;  
 
 1 “Article” refers to an Article of the Paris Agreement, unless otherwise specified.   FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
12  4. Invites submissions from Parties on options for the tables and outlines for the 
information required pursuant to chapter IV of the annex (Reporting) by 31 March 2022 via 
the submission portal ;2 
5. Requests the secretariat to organize a technical workshop, ensuring broad participation 
of Parties, to develop options for the tables and outlines for the information required pursuant 
to chapter IV of the annex (Reporting), including the agreed electronic format r eferred to in 
chapter IV.B of the annex (Annual information), on the basis of the information in those chapters, for consideration by the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice  
at its fifty -sixth session (June 2022);  
6. Also r equests the Subs idiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice  to develop 
tables and outlines for the information required  pursuant  to chapter  IV of the annex 
(Reporting) , including the agreed electronic format referred to in chapter IV.B of the annex 
(Annual informa tion), on the basis of the submissions referred to in paragraph 4 above  and 
taking into account the options developed pursuant to paragraph 5 above , for consideration 
and adoption by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  at its fourth session;  
7. Further  requests the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice  to 
develop recommendations for guidelines for the reviews pursuant to chapter V of the annex (Review), including in relation to the Article 6 technical expert review team, in a manner that minimizes the burden on Parties and the secretariat, for consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  at its 
fourth session , that include:  
(a) Provisions ensuring that the reviews assess consistency of the information 
provided on the cooperative approach with that in the annex;  
(b) That reviews are desk reviews or centralized reviews (as per the descriptions 
in paragraphs 152 a nd 154 of the annex to decision 18/ CMA .1) and are conducted at regular 
intervals each year;  
(c) Development  of modalities for reviewing information that is confidential;  
(d) That the reviews ensure consistency between the reporting of all of the Parties 
participa ting in a cooperative approach in respect of that cooperative approach;  
(e) That the reviews specify recommended action to be taken when inconsistencies 
are identified, and provi sions on how a Party  should respond to those recommendations and 
the implications of non- responsiveness, if any;  
(f) The composition of the Article 6 technical expert review team, how the team 
interacts with the participating Party when  undertaking the review, the implications of 
paragraph 176  of the  annex to decision 18/CMA.1 in respect of  the composition of Article 
13 review teams, and the training programme for the Article 6 technical experts;  
(g) Coordination of the Article 6 technical expert review with the technical expert 
review referred to in chapter VII of the annex to decision 18/CMA.1 , including ensuring that 
Article 6 technical expert reviews in a given review cycle are completed  in advance of , and 
the relevant reports are provided to , the technical expert review referred to in chapter VII of 
the annex to decision 18/CMA.1;  
8. Invites  submissions from Parties on options for implementing the infrastructure 
requirements referred to in chapter VI of the annex ( Recording and tracking) by 31 Ma rch 
2022;  
9. Requests  the secretariat  to organize a technical workshop, ensuring broad participation 
of Parties , to develop options for implementing the infrastructure requirements, including 
guidance for registries, the international registry, the Article 6 database and the centralized 
accounting and reporting platform referred to in chapter VI of the annex ( Recording and 
tracking) , for consideration by the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice  
at its fifty -sixth  session;  
 
 2 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx . FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
 13 10. Also requests  the S ubsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice, on the 
basis of the submissions referred to in paragraph 8 above  and taking into account the options 
developed pursuant to paragraph 9 above , to make recommendations relating  to 
infrastructure, including guidance for registries, the international registry, the Article 6 
database and the centralized accounting and reporting platform referred to in chapter VI of 
the annex (Recording and tracking) , for consideration and adoption by the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  at its fourth session;  
11. Affirms  that the guidance will not infringe on the nationally determined nature of 
nationally determined contributions;  
12. Requests the secretariat to design and, following consultation with Parties, implement 
a capacity -building programme, including through its regional collaboration centres, to assist 
Parties, particularly developing country Parties, intending to participate in cooperative approaches , including  to: 
(a) Support the development of institutional arrangements, including in relation to 
reporting, in order to enable Parties to engage in cooperative approaches;  
(b) Help Parties ensure that cooperative approaches in which they participate 
support ambition;  
(c) Assist the least developed countries and small island developing States in  
meet ing the participation requirements as set out in chapter II of the annex (Participation);  
13. Also requests  the secretariat to prepare annually a compilation and synthesis of the 
results of the Article 6 technical expert review, including identification of recurring themes 
and lessons learned, for consideration by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement , including in the context of its review of the guidance;  
14. Decides  to review the guidance at its tenth session (2028) and to complete the review 
by no later than at its twelfth session (2030) in order to coordinate  the timing of the review 
with that of  the review undertaken in accordance with paragraph 18 of decision 4/CMA.1;  
15. Requests the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice to commence 
its work in 2028 to develop recommendations in relation to the review  referred to in 
paragraph 14 above  and decides that the relevant work of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific 
and Technological Advice shall include, but is not limited to:  
(a) Participation responsibilities referred to in chapter II of the annex 
(Parti cipation);  
(b) Implementation of chapter III of the annex (Corresponding adjustments), 
including consideration of other methods in addition to those set out in chapter III.B of the annex (Application of corresponding adjustments) and elaboration of guidance to provide for 
a single method for corresponding adjustments, to be applied from 2031 onward;  
(c) Implementation of chapter IV of the annex (Reporting);  
(d) Implementation of chapter V of the annex (Review);  
(e) Consideration of any need for  safeguards and li mits in addition to those  already 
operationalized through the annex;  
16. Requests  the secretariat to support the forum on the impact of the implementation of 
response measures (referred to in para . 33 of decision 1/CP.21)  in considering ways  to 
address negative social or economic impacts, especially on developing country Parties, resul ting from activities under Article 6, paragraph 2, as requested by the forum;  
17. Invites  the Adaptation Fund to report in its annual reports to the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  on funding related to 
participation in cooperative approaches pursuant to paragraph 37 of chapter VII of the annex 
(Ambition in mitigation and adaptation actions);  
18. Takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities  to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred t o in this decision;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
14  19. Requests  that the actions called for in this decision be undertaken  subject to the 
availability of financial resources;  
20. Invites  Parties to make contributions to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities 
for operationalizing the guida nce and for supporting the workshops referred to in paragraphs 
5 and 9 above and the capacity- building programme referred to in paragraph 12 above . FCCC/PA/CMA/2021 /10/Add.1  
 15 Annex  
Guidance on cooperative approaches referred to in 
Article  6, paragraph  2, of the Paris Agreement  
I. Internationally transferred mitigation outcomes  
1. Internationally transferred mitigation outcomes (ITMOs) from a cooperative approach 
are: 
(a) Real, verified  and additional;  
(b) Emission reductions and removals, including mitigation co -benefits resulting 
from adaptation actions and/or economic diversification pl ans or the means to achieve them, 
when internationally transferred;  
(c) Measured in metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (t  CO 2 eq) in 
accordance with the methodologies and metrics assessed by the Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change  and adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Paris Agreement  (CMA ) or in other non- greenhouse gas (GHG) metrics 
determined by the participating Parties that are consistent with the nationally determined 
contribution s (NDCs) of the participating Parties ; 
(d) From a cooperative approach referred to in Article1 6, paragraph 2, (hereinafter 
referred to as a cooperative  approach)  that involves the international transfer of mitigation 
outcomes authorized for use towards an ND C pursuant to Article 6, paragraph 3;  
(e) Generated  in respect of or representing mitigation from 2021 onward;  
(f) Mitigation  outcomes authorized by a participating Party for use for 
international mitigation purposes other than achievement of an NDC (hereinafter r eferred to 
as international mitigation purposes) or authorized for other purposes as determined by the 
first transferring participating Party (hereinafter referred to as other purposes) (international mitigation purposes and other purposes are hereinafter referred to together as other 
international mitigation purposes);  
(g) Article 6, paragraph 4, emission reductions issued under the mechanism 
established by Article 6, paragraph 4 , when they are authorized for use towards achievement 
of NDCs and/or authorized f or use for other international mitigation purposes;  
2. A “first transfer” is:  
(a) For a mitigation outcome authorized by a participating Party for use towards 
the achievement of an NDC , the first international transfer of the mitigation outcome or ; 
(b) For a mitigation outcome authoriz ed by a participating Party for use for other 
international mitigation purposes, (1) the authorization, (2) the issuance or  (3) the use or 
cancellation of the mitigation outcome, as specified by the participating Party . 
II. Participa tion  
3. Each Party participating in a cooperative approach that involves the use of ITMOs 
(hereinafter referred as a participating Party) shall ensure that its participation in the cooperative approach and the authorization , transfer and use of ITMOs is cons istent with this 
guidance and relevant decisions of the CMA and that it applies this guidance to all 
corresponding adjustments and cooperative approaches in which it participates.  
4. Each participating Party shall ensure that:  
(a) It is a Party to the Paris Agree ment; 
 
 1 “Article” refers to an Article of the Paris Agreement, unless otherwise specified.   FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
16  (b) It has prepared, communicated and is maintaining an NDC in accordance with 
Article 4, paragraph  2; 
(c) It has arrangements in place for authorizing the use of ITMOs towards 
achievement of NDCs pursuant to Article 6, paragraph 3;  
(d) It has arrangements in place that are consistent with this guidance and relevant 
decisions of the CMA for tracking ITMOs;  
(e) It has provided the most recent national inventory report required in 
accordance with decision 18/CMA.1;  
(f) Its participation contribute s to the implementation of its NDC and long- term 
low-emission development strateg y, if it has submitted one, and the long -term goals of the 
Paris Agreement.  
5. In relation to the least developed countries and small island developing States, 
pursuant to Articl e 4, paragraph 6, their special circumstances shall be recognized where this 
guidance relates to NDCs, and other aspects of their special circumstances may be recognized 
in further decisions of the CMA relating to this guidance.  
III. Corresponding  adjustments 
A. Internationally transferred mitigation outcome metrics  
6. For all ITMOs (ITMOs in a non -GHG metric determined by the participating Parties 
and ITMOs measured in t  CO 2 eq), each participating Party shall apply corresponding 
adjustments consistent ly with this guidance and relevant future decisions of the CMA.  
B. Application of corresponding adjustments  
7. Each  participating Party shall apply corresponding adjustments in a manner that 
ensures  transparency, accuracy, completeness, comparability and consis tency; that 
participation in cooperative approaches does not lead to a net increase in emissions across participating Parties within  and between NDC implementation periods; and that 
corresponding adjustments shall be representative and consistent with the participating Party’s NDC implementation and achievement. Each participating Party shall apply one of the following methods consistently throughout the NDC period:  
(a) Where the participating  Party has a single -year NDC:  
(i) Providing an indicative multi- year emis sions trajectory, trajectories or budget 
for the NDC implementation period that is consistent with implementation and 
achievement of the NDC , and annually applying corresponding adjustments for the 
total amount of ITMOs first transferred and used for each year in the NDC 
implementation period;  
(ii) Calculating the average annual amount of ITMOs first transferred and used 
over the NDC implementation period, by taking the cumulative amount of ITMOs and dividing by the number  of elapsed years in the NDC implementat ion period and 
annually applying indicative corresponding adjustments equal to this average amount for each year in the NDC implementation period and applying corresponding adjustments equal to this average amount in the NDC year ; 
(b) Where the participating Party has a multi- year NDC , calculating a multi- year 
emissions trajectory , trajectories or budget for its NDC implementation period that is 
consistent with the NDC, and annually applying corresponding adjustments for the total 
amount of ITMOs  first transferred and used each year in the NDC implementation period and 
cumulatively at the end of the NDC implementation period . 
8. Each participating Party with an NDC measured in t  CO
2 eq shall apply corresponding 
adjustments pursuant to paragraph 7 above, resulting in an emissions balance as referred to FCCC/PA/CMA/2021 /10/Add.1  
 17 in paragraph 77(d)(ii)  of the annex to decision 18/CMA.1, reported pursuant to paragraph 2 3 
below  for each year, by applying corresponding adjustments in the following manner to the 
anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks from the sectors and GHG s 
covered by its NDC consistent ly with this chapter and relevant future decisions of the CMA:  
(a) Adding the quantity of ITMOs authorized and first transferred, for the calendar 
year in which the mitigation outcomes occurred , pursuant to paragraph 7 above;  
(b) Subtracting the quantity of ITMOs used pursuant to paragraph 7 above  for the 
calendar year in which the mitigation  outcomes are used towards the implementation and 
achievement of the NDC, ensuring that the mitigation outcomes are used within the same 
NDC implementation period as  when they occurred.  
9. Each participating Party with an NDC containing non- GHG metrics determined by 
the participating Parties engaging in a cooperative approach invol ving ITMOs traded in non -
GHG metric s shall apply corresponding adjustments pursuant to paragraph 7  above, on the 
basis of ITMOs  recorded in a metric -specific registry account, resulting in an annual adjusted 
indicator, reported pursuant to paragraph 2 3 below, by applying corresponding adjustments 
to the annual level of the relevant non- GHG indicator that was selected pursuant to paragraph 
65 of the annex to decision 18/CMA.1 and is being used by the Party to track progress 
towards the implementation and achievement of its NDC, consistently  with this chapter and 
relevant future decisions of the CMA, in the following manner:  
(a) Subtracting the quantity of ITMOs authorized and first transferred, for the 
calendar year in which the mitigation outcomes occurred, pur suant to paragraph 7 above;  
(b) Adding the quantity of ITMOs used pursuant to paragraph 7 above  for the 
calendar year in which the mitigation  outcomes are used towards the implementation and 
achievement of the NDC, ensuring that the mitigation outcomes are use d within the same 
NDC implementation period as when they occurred.  
10. Each participating  Party with a first or first updated NDC consisting of policies and 
measures that are not quantified shall apply corresponding adjustments pursuant to paragraph 7 above , resulting in an emissions balance, as referred to in decision 18/CMA.1, reported 
pursuant to paragraph 23 below for each year, by applying corresponding adjustments in the 
following manner to the anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks for those emission or sink categories affected by the implementation of the cooperative approach and its mitigation activities and by those policies and measures that include the implementation of the cooperative approach and its mitigation activities, as applicable, consistently  with this 
chapter and relevant future decisions of the CMA:  
(a) Adding the quantity of ITMOs authorized and first transferred, for the calendar 
year in which the mitigation outcomes occurred , pursuant to paragraph 7 above;  
(b) Subtracting the quantity of ITMOs used pursuant to paragraph 7 above  for the 
calendar year in which the mitigation outcomes are used towards the implementation and achievement of the NDC, ensuring that the mitigation outcomes are used within the same NDC implementation period as when they occurred.  
11. Where, in this annex,  the terms sectors and GHGs apply in relation to an NDC, that 
provision shall be read as referring to sectors and GHGs, or categories in the case referred to in paragraph 10 above.  
12. Additions and subtractions for an NDC implementation period shall be considered 
final, prior to the initiation of the review of the first biennial transparency report that contains information on the end year or end of the period of the NDC, by a date to be determined by 
the CMA.  
13. A participating Party that first transfers ITMOs from emission reductions and 
removals covered by its NDC shall apply corresponding adjustments consistent ly with this 
guidance.  
14. A participating Party that first transfers ITMOs fro m emission reductions and 
removals that are not covered by its NDC shall apply corresponding adjustments consistent ly 
with this guidance.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
18  15. This chapter shall not require a participating Party to update its NDC.  
C. Other international mitigation purposes  
16. Where a participating Party authorizes the use of mitigation outcomes for other 
international mitigation purposes, it shall apply a corresponding adjustment for the first 
transfer of such mitigation outcomes consistently with this guidance.  
D. Safeguards and  limits to the transfer and use of internationally 
transferred mitigation  outcomes  
17. Each participating Party shall ensure that the use of cooperative approaches does not 
lead to a net increase in emissions of participating Parties within and between NDC implementation periods or across participating Parties , and shall ensure transparency, 
accuracy, consistency, completeness and comparability in tracking progress in implementation and achievement of its NDC by applying safeguards and limits set out in further guidance from  the CMA.  
IV. Reporting  
A. Initial report  
18. Each participating Party shall  submit an Article 6, paragraph 2,  initial report 
(hereinafter referred  to as an initial report) no later than authoriz ation of ITMOs from a 
cooperative approach or where pract ical (in the view of the participating Party) in conjunction 
with the next biennial transparency report due pursuant to decision 18/CMA.1 for the period of NDC implementation. The initial report shall contain comprehensive information to:  
(a) Demonstrate that the participating Party fulfils the participation 
responsibilities referred to in chapter II above (Participation);  
(b) Provide, where the participating Party has not yet submitted a biennial 
transparency report, the information referred to in paragraph 64 of the annex to decision 18/CMA.1;  
(c) Communicate the ITMO metrics and the method for applying corresponding 
adjustments  as per chapter III.B above for multi-  or single -year NDCs that will be applied 
consistently throughout the period of NDC implementation  and where the method is a multi -
year emissions trajectory, trajectories or budge t, describe the method;  
(d) Quantify the Party’s mitigation information in its NDC in t CO
2 eq, including 
the sectors, sources, GHGs and time periods covered by the NDC, the refe rence level of 
emissions and removals for the relevant year or period, and the target level for its NDC; or , 
where this is not possible, provide the methodology for the quantification of the NDC in t  
CO 2 eq; 
(e) Quantify the NDC, or the portion in the relevant  non-GHG indicator, in a non-
GHG metric determined by each participating Party, if applicable;  
(f) For a first or first updated NDC consisting of policies and measures that is not 
quantified, quantify the emission level resulting from the policies and measures  that are 
relevant to the implementation of the cooperative approach and its mitigation activities for the categories of anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks as identified by 
the host Party pursuant to paragraph 10 above, and the time periods covered by the NDC ; 
(g) Provide, for each cooperative approach, a copy of the authorization by the 
participating Party,  a description of the approach, its duration, the expected mitigation for 
each year of its duration,  and the participating Parties inv olved and authorized entities;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021 /10/Add.1  
 19 (h) Describe how each cooperative approach ensures environmental integrity, 
including:  
(i) That there is no net increase in global emissions within and between NDC 
implementation periods;  
(ii) Through robust, transparent governance and the quality of mitigation 
outcomes, including through conservative reference levels, baselines set in a 
conservative way and below ‘business  as usual’ emission projections (including by 
taking into account all existing policies and addressing uncertainties in quantification and potential leakage);  
(iii) By minimizing the risk of non -permanence of mitigation across several NDC 
periods and how , when reversals of emission reductions or removals occur, the 
cooperative approach will ensure that these are addressed in full;  
(i) Describe how each cooperative approach will:  
(i) Minimize and, where possible, avoid negative environmental, economic and 
social impacts;  
(ii) Reflect the eleventh preambular paragraph of the Paris Agreement , 
acknowledging that climate change is a common concern of humankind, Parties 
should, when taking action to address climate change, respect, promote and consider their respecti ve obligations on human rights, the right to health, the rights of 
indigenous peoples, local communities, migrants, children, persons with disabilities and people in vulnerable situations and the right to development, as well as gender 
equality, empowermen t of women and intergenerational equity ; 
(iii) Be consistent with the sustainable development objectives of the Party, noting 
national prerogatives;  
(iv) Apply any safeguards and limits set out in further guidance from the CMA 
pursuant to chapter III. D above ( Safeguards and l imits to the transfer and use of 
internationally transferred mitigation outcomes);  
(v) Contribute resources for adaptation pursuant to chapter VII below (Ambition 
in mitigation and adaptation actions), if applicable;  
(vi) Deliver overall mitigation in glob al emissions pursuant to chapter VII  below  
(Ambition in mitigation and adaptation actions), if applicable.  
19. For each further cooperative approach, each participating Party shall submit the 
information referred to in paragraph  18(g–i) above in an updated ini tial report and for 
inclusion in the centralized accounting and reporting platform referred to in chapter VI.C below (Centralized accounting and reporting platform) and include it in the next biennial transparency report  due.  
B. Annual information  
20. Each participating Party shall, on an annual basis by no later than 15 April of the 
following year and in an agreed electronic format, submit for recording in the Article 6 database referred to in chapter VI .B below (Article 6 database):  
(a) Annual information  on authorization of ITMOs for use towards achievement 
of NDCs, authorization of ITMOs for use towards other international mitigation purposes, first transfer, transfer, acquisition, holdings, cancellation, voluntary cancellation, voluntary cancellation of  mitigation outcomes or ITMOs towards overall mitigation in global 
emissions, and use towards NDCs;  
(b) In respect of the above, the cooperative approach, the other international 
mitigation purpose authorized by the Party, the first transferring participating Party, the using 
participating Party or authorized entity or entities, as soon as known, the year in which the mitigation occurred, the sector(s) and activity type(s), and the unique identifiers.   FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
20  C. Regular information  
21. Each participating Party shall  includ e, as an annex to its biennial transparency reports 
that are submitted in accordance with paragraph 10(b)  of the annex to decision 18/CMA.1 
and no later than 31 December of the relevant year, the following information in relation to 
its participation in co operative approaches:  
(a) How it is fulfilling the participation responsibilities referred to in chapter II 
above (Participation);  
(b) Updates to the information provided in its initial report as per chapter IV.A  
above  (Initial report) , and any previous biennial transparency reports for any information that 
is not included in the biennial transparency report pursuant to paragraph 64 of the annex to 
decision 18/CMA.1;  
(c) Authorizations and information on its authorization(s) of use of ITMOs 
towards achievement of NDC s and authorization for use for other international mitigation 
purposes, including any changes to earlier authorizations, pursuant to Article 6, paragraph 3;  
(d) How corresponding adjustments undertaken in the latest reporting period, 
pursuant to chapter III a bove (Corresponding adjustments), ensure that double counting is 
avoided in accordance with paragraph 36 of decision 1/CP.21 and are representative of 
progress towards implementation and achievement of its NDC, and how those corresponding adjustments ensur e that participation in cooperative approaches does not lead to a net increase 
in emissions across participating Parties within and between NDC implementation periods; 
(e) How it has ensured that ITMOs that have been used towards achievement of 
its NDC or mitigation outcome(s) authorized for use and that have been used for other 
international mitigation purposes will not be further transferred, further cancelled or otherwise used.  
22. Each participating Party shall also include, as an annex to its biennial transpar ency 
reports that are submitted in accordance with paragraph 10(b)  of the annex to decision  
18/CMA.1 and no later than 31 December  of the relevant year,  the following information on 
how each cooperative approach in which it participates:  
(a) Contributes to the mitigation of GHGs and the implementation of its NDC;  
(b) Ensures environmental integrity, including:  
(i) That there is no net increase in global emissions  within and between NDC 
implementation periods;  
(ii) Through robust , transparent governance and the quality of mitigation 
outcomes , including through conservative reference levels, baselines set in a 
conservative way and below ‘business  as usual’ emission projections (including by 
taking into account all existing policies and addressing uncertainties in quantification and potential leakage);  
(iii) By minimizing the risk of non -permanence of mitigation across several NDC 
periods and when reversals of emission removals oc cur, ensuring that these are 
addressed in full;  
(c) Where a mitigation outcome is measured and transferred in t  CO
2 eq, provides 
for the measurement of mitigation outcomes in accordance with the methodologies and metrics assessed by the Intergovernmental Panel  on Climate Change  and adopted by the 
CMA;  
(d) Where a mitigation outcome is measured and first transferred in a non -GHG 
metric determined by the participating Parties, ensures that the method for converting the non-GHG metric into t CO
2 eq is appropriate for the specific non- GHG metric and the 
mitigation scenario in which it is applied, including how the conversion method:  
(i) Represents the emission reductions or removals that occur within the 
geographical boundaries and time frame in which the non- GHG mitigation outcome 
was generated;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021 /10/Add.1  
 21 (ii) Is appropriate for the specific non- CO 2 eq metric, including a demonstration 
of how the selection of the conversion method and conversion factor(s) applied take 
into consideration the specific scenario in which the mitigation action occurs;  
(iii) Is transparent, including a description of the method, the source of the 
underlying data, how the data are used, and how the method is applied in a conservative manner that addresses uncertainty and ensures environmental  integrity;  
(e) Provides for, as applicable, the measurement of mitigation co -benefits 
resulting from adaptation actions and/or economic diversification plans;  
(f) Minimizes and, where possible, avoids  negative, environmental, economic and 
social impacts;  
(g) Reflects  the eleventh preambular paragraph of the Paris Agreement , 
acknowledging that climate change is a common concern of humankind, Parties should, when 
taking action to address climate change, respect, promote and consider their respective obligations on human rights, the right to health, the rights of indigenous peoples, local 
communities, migrants, children, persons with disabilities and people in vulnerable situations and the right to development, as well as gender equality, empowerment of women and intergen erational equity ; 
(h) Is consistent with and contributes to the sustainable development objectives of 
the Party, noting national prerogatives;  
(i) Applies any safeguards and limits set out in further guidance from the CMA 
pursuant to chapter III. D above (Safeguards and limits to the transfer and use of 
internationally transferred mitigation outcomes);  
(j) Contributes resources for adaptation  pursuant to chapter VII below (Ambition 
in mitigation and adaptation actions), if applicable;  
(k) Delivers overall mitigation in glob al emissions pursuant to chapter VII  below  
(Ambition in mitigation and adaptation actions), if applicable.  
23. Each participating Party shall  submit the following annual information (reported 
biennially) in a manner consistent with chapter III.B above (Applica tion of corresponding 
adjustments) and any updates to information submitted for previous years in the NDC implementation period to the Article 6 database pursuant to chapter VI.B below (Article 6 database) and shall include it in the structured summary (re quired pursuant to paragraph 77(d) 
of the annex to decision 18/CMA.1 as part  of the biennial transparency report) : 
(a) Annual anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks covered by 
its NDC or, where applicable, for the emission or sink categories as identified by the host Party pursuant to paragraph 10 above (as part of the information referred to in para. 77(d)(i) of the annex to decision 18/CMA.1);  
(b) Annual anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks covered by 
its NDC or, w here applicable, from the portion of its NDC in accordance with paragraph 10 
above;  
(c) Annual quantity of ITMOs first transferred;  
(d) Annual quantity of mitigation outcomes authorized for use for other  
international mitigation purposes and entities authorized to  use such mitigation outcomes, as 
appropriate;  
(e) Annual quantity of ITMOs used towards achievement of its NDC;  
(f) Net annual quantity of ITMOs resulting from  paragraph 2 3(c–e) above;  
(g) Total quantitative corresponding adjustments used to calculate the emissions 
balance and/or annual adjusted indicator referred to in paragraph 23( k) below , in accordance 
with the Party’s method for applying corresponding adjustments consistent with chapter  III.B 
above (Application of corresponding adjustments);  
(h) The cumulative inform ation in respect of the annual information referred to in 
paragraph 2 3(f) above, as applicable;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
22  (i) The annual level of the relevant non- GHG indicator that is being used by the 
Party to track progress towards the implementation and achievement of its NDC and was 
selected pursuant to paragraph 65 of the  annex to decision 18/CMA.1;  
(j) For the information referred to in paragraph 23(c –e) ab ove, the amounts per 
the cooperative approach, sector, transferring Party, using Party and vintage of the ITMO for each cooperat ive approach  (in the annex referred to in para. 22 above) ;  
(k) For metrics in: 
(i) Tonnes of CO
2 eq or non- GHGs, an annual emissions balance consistent with 
chapter III.B above (Application of corresponding adjustments)  (as part of the 
information referred to in para. 77(d)(ii) of the annex to decision 18/CMA.1);  
(ii) Non-GHGs , for each non -GHG metric determined by participating Parties, 
annual adjustments resulting in an annual adjusted indicator, consistent ly with 
paragraph 9 in chapter III.B above ( Application of c orresponding adjustments) and 
future decisions of the  CMA (as part of the information referred to in para . 77(d)(iii) 
of the annex to decision 18/CMA.1);   
(l) In biennial transparency reports that contain information on the end year of the 
NDC implementation period , in its assessment of whether it has achieved the target(s) for its 
NDC pursuant to paragraphs 70 and 77 of decision  18/CMA.1, the application of the 
necessary corresponding adjustments consistent ly with chapter III above (Corresponding 
adjustments) and consistently with future decisions of the CMA.  
24. Information submitted by a Party pursuant to this chapter that is not identified by that 
Party as confidential (non- confidential information) shall be ma de public on the centralized 
accounting and reporting platform.  
V. Review  
25. An Article 6 technical expert review consists of a desk or centralized review of the 
consistency of the information submitted by the Party under chapter IV .A and C above 
(Reporting) with this guidance. An Article 6 technical expert review shall be undertaken in a manner that minimizes burden on Parties and the secretariat.  
26. An Article 6 technical expert review team shall review the information submitted 
pursuant to chapter IV .A and C above (Reporting) in accordance with guidelines adopted by 
the CMA. To the extent possible, information submitted by all the participating Parties on a 
cooperative approach shall be reviewed as part of the review.  
27. The Article 6 te chnical expert review team shall prepare a report on its review , 
pursuant to paragraph 26 above , that shall, if applicable, include  recommendations to the 
participating Party on how to improve consistency with this guidance and relevant decisions 
of the CM A, including on how to address inconsistencies in quantified information that is 
reported under chapter IV. B–C above (Reporting) and/or identified by the secretariat as part 
of the consistency check.  
28. The Article 6 technical expert review team shall forward  its reports for consideration 
in the technical expert review referred to in chapter VII of the annex to decision 18/CMA.1 
in accordance with the guidelines referred to in paragraph 26 above , and the reports shall be 
made publicly available on  the centralized accounting and recording platform.  
VI. Recording and tracking  
A. Tracking  
29. Each participating Party shall have, or have access to, a registry for the purpose of 
tracking and shall ensure that such registry records, including through unique identifiers, as 
applicable , authorization, first transfer, transfer, acquisition,  use towards NDCs, FCCC/PA/CMA/2021 /10/Add.1  
 23 authorization for use towards other international mitigation purposes, and voluntary 
cancellation  (including for overall mitigation in global emissions, if applicable) , and shall 
have accounts as necessary.  
30. The secretariat shall implement an international registry for participating Parties that 
do not have or do not have access to a registry. The international registry shall be able to perform the functions s et out in paragraph 29  above. Any Party may request an account in 
the international registry.  
31. The international registry shall be  part of  the centralized accounting and reporting  
platform  referred to in chapter VI.C below (C entralized accounting and repor ting platform ). 
B. Article 6 database  
32. For transparency in relation to cooperative approaches, to record and compile the 
information  submitted by participating Parties pursuant to chapter IV .B–C above (Reporting) 
and to support the review referred to in chapte r V above (Review), the secretariat shall 
implement an Article 6 database as part of and integrated with the centralized accounting and 
reporting platform referred to in chapter VI.C below (C entralized accounting and reporting 
platform ). The Article 6 data base shall enable the following:  
(a) Recording of corresponding adjustments and emissions balances and 
information on ITMOs first transferred, transferred, acquired, held, cancelled, cancelled for overall mitigation in global emissions, if any, and/or used by participating Parties, through 
identification of ITMOs by unique identifiers that identify, at the minimum, the participating Party, vintage of underlying mitigation, activity type and sector(s);  
(b) Identifying inconsistencies to be notified to the participating Party or 
participating Parties, as applicable.  
33. The secretariat shall:  
(a) Check the consistency of information reported by a participating Party 
pursuant to chapter IV above (Reporting) for recording in the Article 6 database with the 
requiremen ts of this guidance and across the participating Parties in a cooperative approach 
(consistency check);  
(b) Notify the participating Party(ies) of any inconsistencies identified in the 
information reported by the Party, including compared  with information repo rted by another 
participating Party;  
(c) Provide  information relevant to the participating Party’s cooperative 
approach(es) (and other participating Parties, as relevant), including the consistency check to 
the Article 6 technical expert review team in accorda nce with the guidelines referred to in 
paragraph 2 6 above ; 
(d) Make non-confidential information in the consistency check publicly available 
on the centralized accounting and reporting platform.  
34. Any amendments to the information recorded in the Article 6 database, including in 
response to any inconsistencies raised by the secretariat through the consistency check or as a result of recommendations arising from the Article 6 technical expert review pursuant to chapter V above (Review), shall be submitted by the participating Party to be recorded in the Article 6 database.  
C. Centralized accounting and reporting platform  
35. For transparency in relation to cooperative approaches and to support the review 
referred to in chapter V above (Review), the secretariat shall estab lish and maintain a 
centralized accounting and reporting platform for publishing information  submitted by 
participating Parties pursuant to chapter I V above (Reporting).  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
24  36. The secretariat shall:  
(a) Maintain public information on cooperative approaches and ITMO s by 
extracting relevant non -confidential information from the information submitted by 
participating Parties pursuant to chapter  IV above (Reporting);  
(b) Maintain links to the publicly available information submitted by participating 
Parties on the cooperative approaches in which they participate;  
(c) Provide an annual report to the CMA on the activities in relation to this chapter, 
including information on recorded ITMOs, corresponding adjustments and emission 
balances.  
VII. Ambition  in mitigation  and adaptation actions  
37. Participating Parties and stakeholders using cooperative approaches  are strongly 
encouraged to commit to contribut e resources for adaptation , in particular through 
contributions to the Adaptation Fund,  and to take into account the delivery of resources under 
Article 6, paragraph 4,  to assist developing country Parties that are particularly vulnerable to 
the adverse effects of climate change to meet the costs of adaptation.  
38. Each participating Party shall  report  as part of their repor ting in accordance with 
chapter IV.C above (Regular information) on any contributions made pursuant to paragraph 37 above . 
39. Participating Parties and stakeholders are strongly encouraged to cancel  ITMOs  that 
are not counted towards any Party’s NDC or for ot her international mitigation purposes,  to 
deliver overall mitigation in global emissions , and to take  into account the delivery of overall 
mitigation  in global emissions under the mechanism established by Article 6, paragraph 4 . 
40. Each participating Party sh all report  as part of their reporting in accordance with 
chapter IV.C above (Regular information) on any delivery of overall mitigation in global emissions related to its participation in cooperative approaches.  
12
th plenary meeting  
13 Novemb er 2021FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
 25 Decision 3/CMA.3  
Rules, modalities and procedures for the mechanism 
established by Article 6, paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreement  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
Recalling the Paris Agreement , 
Also recalling the tenth preambular paragraph of the Paris Agreement , in which 
Parties  take into account  the imperatives of a just transition of the workforce and the 
creation of decent work and quality jobs in accordance with nationally defined 
development priorities ,  
Further  recalling the eleventh preambular paragraph of the Paris Agreement , 
acknowledging that climate change is a common concern of humankind, Parties should, 
when taking action to address climate change, respect, promote and consider their respective obligations on human rights, the right to health, the rights of indigenous peoples, local co mmunities, migrants, children, persons with disabilities and people in 
vulnerable situations and the right to development, as well as gender equality, empowerment of women and intergenerational equity,  
Recalling  the mechanism established by Article 6, para graph 4, of the Paris 
Agreement and the aims referred to therein , 
Also recalling decisions 1/CP.21, 8/CMA.1, 13/CMA.1 and 9/CMA.2,  
Cognizant of decision 2/CMP.16 , 
1. Adopts  the rules, modalities and procedures for the mechanism  established by 
Article
1 6, paragraph 4, as contained in the annex;  
2. Designates  the body that will supervise the mechanism with its membership and rules 
of procedure as set out in the annex and names it the Supervisory Body;  
3. Invites  the nomination of members and alternate members for  the Supervisory Body 
pursuant to paragraph 9 of the annex;  
4. Decides  that at least two meetings of the Supervisory Body shall be held in 2022;  
5. Requests the Supervisory Body to:  
(a) Develop provisions for the development and approval of methodologies, 
validation , registration, monitoring, verification and certification, issuance, renewal, first 
transfer from the mechanism registry, voluntary cancellation and other processes pursuant to 
chapter s V.B–L and VIII of the annex  (Delivering overall mitigation in global emissions) ; 
(b) In the context of developing and approving new methodologies for the 
mechanism:  
(i) Review the baseline and monitoring methodologies in use for the clean 
development mechanism under Article 12 of the Kyoto Protocol with a view to applying them with  revisions , as appropriate,  pursuant to chapter V .B of the annex 
(Methodologies) for the activities under the mechanism (hereinafter referred to as Article 6, paragraph 4 , activities); 
(ii) Consider the baseline and monitoring methodologies used in other market -
based mechanisms as a complementary input to the development of baselines and 
monitoring methodologies pursuant to chapter V.B of the annex (Methodologies);  
(c) Review the sustainable development tool in use for the clean development 
mechanism and other tools  and safeguard systems in use in existing market -based 
 
 1 “Article” refers to an Article of the Paris Agreement, unless otherwise specified.   FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
26  mechanisms to promote sustainable development with a view to developing similar tools for 
the mechanism by the end of 2023;  
(d) Review the accreditation standards and procedures of the clean development 
mechanism with a view to applying them with revisions , as appropriate, for the mechanism 
by the end of 2023;  
(e) Expeditiously accredit operational entities as designated operational entities;  
(f) Ensure the implementation of the requirements referred to in paragraph 29 of 
the annex in relation to the  least developed countries and small island developing States;  
(g) Consid er ways to encourage participation by small and micro businesses in the 
mechanism, in particular in the least developed countries and small island developing States;  
(h) Consider opportunities to engage with the Local Communities and Indigenous 
Peoples Platfor m and its Facilitative Working Group;  
(i) Consider the gender action plan and the incorporation of relevant actions into 
the work of the Supervisory Body;  
6. Also requests the Supervisory Body to elaborate and further develop, on the basis of 
the rules, modalities and procedures contained in the annex, recommendations, for consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its fourth session (November 2022) , on:  
(a) Its rules of procedure (incl uding in relation to transparency of meetings), and 
to operate and hold meetings on the basis of the annex pending any further decisions by the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  on the 
rules of procedure ; 
(b) Appropriate levels for the share of proceeds for administrative expenses and 
its operation, including in order to enable a periodic contribution to the share of proceeds for adaptation for the Adaptation Fund;  
(c) Activities involving removals, including appropriate monitoring, reporting, 
accounting for removals and crediting periods, addressing reversals, avoidance of leakage, 
and avoidance of other negative environmental and social impacts , in addition to the activities 
referred to  in chapter V of the annex (A rticle 6, paragraph 4, a ctivity cycle);  
(d) The application of the requirements referred to in chapter V.B of the annex 
(Methodologies);  
7. Further requests the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice to 
develop, on the basis of the rules,  modalities and procedures contained in the annex, 
recommendations , for consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties serving 
as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its fourth session , on: 
(a) Further responsibilities of the Supe rvisory Body and of Parties that host Article 
6, paragraph 4,  activities (hereinafter referred to as host Parties) in order for such host Parties 
to elaborate and apply national arrangements for the mechanism under the approval and 
supervision of the Super visory Body;  
(b) Processes for implementation of the transition of activities from the clean 
development mechanism to Article 6, paragraph 4 , in accordance with chapter XI.A of the 
annex  (Transition of clean development mechanism activities) ; 
(c) Processes for imp lementation of chapter XI.B of the annex  (Use of certified 
emission reductions towards first or first updated nationally determined contributions) ; 
(d) Reporting by host Parties on their Article 6, paragraph 4, activities and the 
Article 6, paragraph 4, emissi on reductions  issued for the activities, while avoiding 
unnecessary duplication of reporting information that is already publicly available;  
(e) The operation of the mechanism registry referred to in chapter VI of the annex 
(Mechanism registry);  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
 27 (f) The processes necessary for implementation of the share of proceeds to cover 
administrative expenses and the share of proceeds to assist developing country Parties that 
are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change to meet the costs of adaptation in accordance with chapter VII of the annex (Levy of share of proceeds for 
adaptation and administrative expenses) ; 
(g) The processes necessary for  the delivery of overall mitigation in global 
emissions in accordance with chapter VIII of the annex  (Delivering overall mitigation in 
global emissions) ; 
(h) The consideration of whether activities could include emission avoidance and 
conservation enhancement activities;  
8. Requests the Supervisory Body to evaluate the implementation of the share of 
proceeds set out in chapter VII of the annex ( Levy of s hare of proceeds for adaptation and 
administrative expenses ) no later than in 2026 and every five  years thereafter and, following 
such review, to make recommendations on possible improvements in order to optimize the 
resources available to the Adaptation Fund for consideration and adoption by the Conference 
of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement ;  
9. Also r equests  the Supervisory Body to evaluate the implementation and delivery of 
overall mitigation in global emissions set out in chapter VIII of the annex (Deliver ing overall 
mitigation in global emissions), including the percentage applied, no later than in 2026 and 
every five years thereafter and, following such review, to make recommendat ions on possible 
improvements in order to optimize the delivery of overall mitigation in global emissions for 
consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement ;  
10. Decides  that the Confer ence of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Paris Agreement  shall review the rules, modalities and  procedures for the mechanism at its 
tenth session (2028) with a view to completing the review by no later than at its twelfth 
session (2 030);  
11. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological A dvice to develop 
recommendations with respect to the review referred to in paragraph 10 above  taking into 
account:  
(a) Any recommendations of the Supervisory Body pursuant to paragraphs 8– 9 
above;  
(b) Consideration of any need for further safeguards;  
12. Also requests the Supervisory Body to support the forum on the impact of the 
implementation of response measures (referred to in para . 33 of decision 1/CP.21) in 
considering ways to address any negative social or economic impacts, especially those on developing country Parties, resulting from Article 6, paragraph 4, activities, as requested by the forum;  
13. Notes with appreciation decision 2/CMP.16 , pursuant to which the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol allocated funds from the Trust Fund for the Clean Development Mechanism under Article 12 of the Kyoto Protocol to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities for the purp ose of expediting implementation 
of the Article 6, paragraph 4 , mechanism;  
14. Requests the secretariat, including through its regional collaboration cent res and in 
consultation with the Supervisory Body, to design and implement, in consultation with Parties, a capacity -building programme to assist Parties wishing to voluntarily participate in 
the mechanism to, inter alia:  
(a) Establish the necessary institutional arrangements to implement the 
requirements contained in the annex;  
(b) Develop the technical capacity to d esign and set baselines for application in 
host Parties;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
28  15. Takes note of  the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in this decision;  
16. Requests  that the actions called for in this decision be underta ken subject to the 
availability of financial resources;  
17. Invites  Parties to make contributions to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities 
for the purpose of operationalizing the mechanism, which shall be reimbursed upon request.FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
 29 Annex  
Rules, modalities and procedures for the mechanism 
established by Article  6, paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreement  
I. Definitions  
1. For the purpose of these rules, modalities and procedures:  
(a) An “ Article 6, paragraph 4, activity” is an activity that meets the 
requirements of Article1 6, paragraphs 4‒6, these rules, modalities a nd procedures, and any 
further relevant decisions of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Paris Agreement (CMA);  
(b) An “ Article 6, paragraph 4, emission reduction ” (A6.4ER) is issued for 
mitigation achieved pursuant to Ar ticle 6, paragraphs 4‒6, these rules, modalities and 
procedures, and any further relevant decisions of the CMA. It is measured in carbon dioxide equivalent and is equal to 1 tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent calculated in accordance with the methodologies  and metrics assessed by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 
and adopted by the CMA or in other metrics adopted by the CMA pursuant to these rules, modalities and procedures ;  
(c) “International mitigation purposes ”, “other purposes ” and “other 
international mitigation purposes ” have the same meanings as provided in paragraph 1(f) 
of the annex to decision 2/CMA.3 . 
II. Role of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
2. The CMA shall provide guidance to t he Supervisory Body by taking decisions on, 
inter alia: 
(a) The rules of procedure of the Supervisory Body;  
(b) Recommendations made by the Supervisory Body relating to these rules, 
modalities and procedures;  
(c) Matters relating to the operation of the mechanism esta blished by Article 6, 
paragraph 4, as appropriate.  
III. Supervisory  Body  
3. The Supervisory Body shall supervise the mechanism under the authority and 
guidance of the CMA and be  fully accountable to the CMA.  
A. Rules of procedure  
4. The Supervisory Body shall comprise 1 2 members from Parties to the Paris 
Agreement, ensuring broad and equitable geographical representation and striving to ensure 
gender -balanced representation, as follows:  
(a) Two members from each of the five United Nations regional groups;  
(b) One member from the  least developed countries;  
(c) One member from small island developing States . 
 
 1 “Article” refers to an Article of the Paris Agreement, unless otherwise specified.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/ 10/Add.1  
30  5. The CMA shall elect members and an alternate for each member of the Supervisory 
Body on the basis of  nominations by the respective groups and constituencies.  
6. Members and alternate members shall serve in their individual expert capacity.  
7. Members and alternate members shall possess relevant scientific, technical, 
socioeconomic or legal expertise.  
8. Members and alternate members shall serve for a term of two years.  
9. Notwithstanding paragraph 8 above , in the first election of members and alternate 
members, the CMA shall elect half of the members and their alternate members for a term of 
three years and the other half for a term of two years. At the expiry of the term of these members and their alternate members and thereafter, the CMA shall elect replacement members and their alternate members for a term of two years. The members and their alternate memb ers shall remain in office until their successors have been elected.  
10. The term of service of a member shall start at the first meeting of the Supervisory 
Body in the calendar year following their election and shall end immediately before the first meeting o f the Supervisory Body in the calendar year in which the term ends.  
11. The maximum number of terms of any individual shall be two terms, whether 
consecutive or not and including any period as an alternate member.  
12. If a member or alternate member resigns or is otherwise unable to continue as a 
member or alternate member, the Supervisory Body may decide, bearing in mind the proximity to the next session of the CMA, to appoint a replacement member or replacement alternate member from the same constituency to serve the remainder of the term on the basis 
of a nomination from the relevant constituency, in which case the appointment shall count as one term.  
13. Members  and alternate members may be suspended, or their membership terminated 
by the CMA , if: 
(a) They fail to disclose a conflict of interest;  
(b) They fail to attend two consecutive meetings without proper justification.  
14. Participation costs for members and alternate members will be covered by the share 
of proceeds for administrative expenses.  
15. Members and alternate members  shall avoid actual, potential and perceived conflicts 
of interest and shall:  
(a) Declare any actual, potential or perceived conflict of interest at the start of a 
meeting; 
(b) Recuse themselves from participating in any work of the Supervisory Body, 
including dec ision -making, in relation to which they have an actual, potential or perceived 
conflict of interest; 
(c) Refrain from behaviour that may be incompatible with the requirements of 
independence and impartiality.  
16. Members and alternate members shall ensure confiden tiality, in line with relevant best 
practice and decisions of the CMA and the Supervisory Body.  
17. At least three fourths of the members, including alternate members only when they 
are acting as members, shall constitute a quorum for meetings of the Supervisory Body.  
18. Each year, the Supervisory Body shall elect a Chair and a Vice -Chair from among its 
members. The Chair and the Vice -Chair shall remain in office until their successors have 
been elected.  
19. Meetings of the Supervisory Body shall be open to the public, including via electronic 
means, and a recording shall be made available via electronic means unless closed for reasons 
of confidentiality.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
 31 20. Documents for meetings of the Supervisory Body shall be  made publicly available, 
unless they are confidential.  
21. The Supervisory Body shall ensure transparency of decision- making and make 
publicly available its decision -making framework and decisions, including standards, 
procedures and related documents.  
22. Decisi ons of the Supervisory Body shall be taken by consensus whenever possible. If 
all efforts at reaching consensus have been exhausted, decisions shall be put to vote and 
adopted by a majority of three fourths of the members, including alternate members only 
when they are acting as members, present and voting.  
23. The Supervisory Body shall adopt reports on its meetings and make them publicly 
available.  
B. Governance and functions  
24. The Supervisory Body shall, in accordance with relevant decisions of the CMA:  
(a) Establish the requirements  and processes necessary to operate the mechanism, 
relating to, inter alia: 
(i) The accreditation  of operational entities as designated operational entities; 
(ii) The development  and/or approval of methodologies (hereinafter referred to as  
mechanism methodologies) and standardized baselines for Article 6, paragraph 4, activities;  
(iii) The registration of activities as Article 6, paragraph 4, activities, the renewal 
of crediting periods of registered Article 6, paragraph 4, activities and the iss uance of 
A6.4ERs;  
(iv) Ensuring that activities  follow reasonable maximum time intervals between the 
steps in the activity cycle; 
(v) The registry for the mechanism;  
(vi) The share of  proceeds levied to assist developing country Parties that are 
particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change to meet the costs of adaptation as set out in chapter VII below (Levy of share of proceeds for adaptation and administrative expenses);  
(vii) The delivery of overall mitigation  in global emissions as set out in chapter VI II 
below (Delivering overall mitigation in global emissions); 
(viii) The approval and supervision of host Party national arrangements for 
accreditation of operational entities; development of mechanism methodologies, 
including applying baselines and other methodological requirements as defined in  
chapter V.B below (Methodologies); and application of the crediting periods and 
renewal of crediting periods consistent with or more stringent than as set out in chapter V.A, C and I below;  
(ix) The eleventh preambular paragraph of the Paris Agreement, acknowledging 
that climate change is a common concern of humankind, Parties should, when taking 
action to address climate change, respect, promote and consider their respective obligations on human rights, the right to health, the rights of indigenous peoples, local communities, migrants, children, persons with disabilities and people in vulnerable situations and the right to development, as well as gender equality, empowerment of 
women and intergenerational equity;  
(x) The applicatio n of robust, social and environmental safeguards;  
(xi) The development of tools and approaches for assessing  and report ing 
information about how each activity is fostering sustainable development , while 
acknowledging that the consideration of sustainable development is a national 
prerogative;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/ 10/Add.1  
32  (xii) Ensuring that the mechanism facilitates  achievement  of the long- term goals of 
the Paris Agreement ; 
(b) Accredit operational entities  as designated operational entities;  
(c) Support the implementation  of the mechanism by, inter alia:  
(i) Developing  and maintaining a public website for information related to 
proposed and registered Article 6, paragraph 4, activities, subject to confidentiality;  
(ii) Taking appropriate measures to promote the regional availability of designated 
operational entities  in all regions; 
(iii) Promoting public  awareness of the mechanism;  
(iv) Facilitating dialogue  with host Parties and other stakeholders in the 
mechanism;  
(v) Providing public information to the CMA on all registered Article 6, paragraph 
4, activities hosted by each Party and all A6.4ERs issued for those activities;  
(vi) Implementing  capacity -building activities; 
(d) Report annually to the CMA.  
C. Role of the secretariat  
25. Pursuant to Article 17 and in accordance with relevant decisions of the CMA, the 
secretariat shall serve as the secretariat of the Supervisory Body and perform its functions in 
the operation of the mechanism in accordance with these rules, modalities and procedures.  
IV. Participation responsibilities  
26. Each host Party of Article 6, paragraph 4, activities shall, prior to participating in the 
mechanism, ensure that:  
(a) It is a Party to the Paris Agreement; 
(b) It has prepared, has communicated and is maintaining a nationally determined 
contribution ( NDC) in accordance with Article 4, paragraph 2;  
(c) It has designated a national authority for the mechanism and has communicated 
that designation to the secretariat; 
(d) It has indicated publicly to the Supervisory Body how its participation in the 
mechanism cont ributes to sustainable development, while acknowledging that the 
consideration of sustainable development is a national prerogative;  
(e) It has indicated publicly to the Supervisory Body the types of Article 6, 
paragraph 4, activity that it would consider appr oving pursuant to chapter V.C below 
(Approval and authorization)  and how such types of activity and any associated emission 
reductions would contribute to the achievement of its NDC, if applicable, its long -term low 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emission development strategy, if it has submitted one, and the long -
term goals of the Paris Agreement.  
27. A host Party may specify to the Supervisory Body, prior to participating in the 
mechanism:  
(a) Baseline approaches and other methodological requirements, including 
additionality, to be applied for Article 6, paragraph 4, activities that it intends to host, in addition and subject to and consistent with these rules, modalities and procedures, under t he 
supervision of the Supervisory Body, and subject to further relevant decisions of the CMA, with an explanation of how those approaches and requirements are compatible with its NDC 
and, if it has submitted one, its long -term low  GHG emission development strategy;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
 33 (b) Crediting periods to be applied for Article 6, paragraph 4, activities that it 
intends to host, including whether the crediting periods may be renewed, subject to these 
rules, modalities and procedures and under the supervision of the Supervisory Body, and in 
accordance with further relevant decisions of the CMA, with an explanation of how those crediting periods are compatible with its NDC  and, if it has submitted one, its long- term low 
GHG emission development strategy.  
28. Each host Party shall ens ure that, on a continuing basis:  
(a) It is maintaining an NDC in accordance with Article 4, paragraph 2;  
(b) Its participation in the mechanism contributes to the implementation of its 
NDC and its long- term low GHG emission development strategy,  if it has submitted one.  
29. In relation to the least developed countries and small island developing States, 
pursuant to Article 4, paragraph 6, their special circumstances shall be recognized where these rules, modalities and procedures relate to NDCs, and other aspects of t heir special 
circumstances may be recognized in further decisions of the CMA relating to these rules, modalities and procedures.  
V. Article 6, paragraph 4, activity cycle  
A. Activity design  
30. The public or private entities participating in an activity (hereinafter  referred to as 
activity participants) that wish to register the activity as an Article 6, paragraph 4, activity shall design the activity according to the requirements in this chapter and any other relevant requirements adopted by the CMA or the Supervisory Body.  
31. The activity:  
(a) Shall be designed to achieve mitigation of GHG emissions that is additional, 
including reducing emissions, increasing removals and mitigation co- benefits of adaptation 
actions and/or economic diversification  plans (hereinafter collectively referred to as emission 
reductions), and not lead to an increase in global emissions;  
(b) May be a project, programme of activities or other type of activity approved 
by the Supervisory Body;  
(c) Shall be designed to achieve emission reductions in the host Party;  
(d) Shall  also:  
(i) Deliver real, measurable and long -term benefits related to climate change in 
accordance with decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 37(b);  
(ii) Minimize the risk of non -permanence of emission reductions over multiple 
NDC implementation periods and, where reversals occur, ens ure that these are 
addressed in full;  
(iii) Minimize the risk of leakage and adjust for any remaining leakage in the 
calculation of emission reductions or removals;  
(iv) Minimize and , where possible, avoid negative environmental and social 
impacts; 
(e) Shall undergo loca l and, where appropriate, subnational stakeholder 
consultation consistent with applicable domestic arrangements in relation to public 
participation  and local communities and indigenous peoples, as applicable;  
(f) Shall apply a crediting period for the issuance  of A6.4ERs, that is a maximum 
of 5 years renewable a maximum of twice, or a maximum of 10 years with no option of renewal, that is appropriate to the activity, or, in respect of activities involving removals, a crediting period of a maximum of 15 years re newable a maximum of twice that is appropriate 
to the activity, and that is subject to approval by the Supervisory Body, or any shorter FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/ 10/Add.1  
34  crediting period specified by the host Party pursuant to paragraph 27(b) above. The crediting 
period shall not start bef ore 2021.  
32. The activity shall apply a mechanism methodology that has been developed in 
accordance with chapter V.B below  (Methodologies) and approved by the Supervisory Body 
following its technical assessment, in order to: 
(a) Set a baseline for the calculation of emission reductions to be achieved by the 
activity; 
(b) Demonstrate the additionality of the activity;  
(c) Ensure accurate monitoring of emission reductions;  
(d) Calculate the emission reductions achieved by the activity.  
B. Methodologies  
33. Mechanism methodologies shall encourage ambition over time ; encourage broad 
participation ; be real, transparent, conservative, credible and below  ‘business as usual ’; avoid 
leakage, where applicable;  recognize suppressed demand;  align with the long -term 
temperature goal of the Paris Agreement ; contribute to the equitable sharing of mitigation 
benefits between the participating Parties ; and, in resp ect of each participating Party, 
contribute to reducing emission levels in the host Party,  and align with its NDC, if applicable, 
its long -term low GHG emission development strategy,  if it has submitted one , and the long-
term goals of the Paris Agreement.  
34. Mechanism methodologies shall include relevant assumptions, parameters, data 
sources and key factors and take into account uncertainty, leakage, policies and measures, and relevant circumstances , including national, regional or local, social, economic, 
environmental and technological circumstances , and address reversals , where applicable.  
35. Mechanism methodologies may be developed by activity participants,  host Parties, 
stakeholders or the Supervisory Body. Mechanism methodologies shall be approved by the Supervisory Body where they meet the requirements of these rules, modalities and procedures and the requirements established by the Supervisory Body.  
36. Each  mechanism methodology shall require the application of one of the approach(es) 
below to setting the baseline, while taking into account any guidance by the Supervisory Body, and with justification for the appropriateness of the choices, including informat ion on 
how the proposed baseline approach is consistent with paragraphs  33 and 35 above and 
recognizing that a host Party may determine a more ambitious level at its discretion: 
A performance- based  approach, taking into account:  
(i) Best available technologies that represent an economically feasible and 
environmentally sound course of action, where appropriate;  
(ii) An ambitious benchmark approach where the baseline is set at least at the 
average emission level of the best performing comparabl e activities providing similar 
outputs and services in a defined scope in similar social, economic, environmental and technological circumstances;  
(iii) An approach based on existing actual or historical emissions, adjusted 
downwards to ensure alignment with par agraph 33 above.  
37. Standardized baselines may be developed by the Supervisory Body at the request of 
the host Party or may be developed by the host Party and approved by the Supervisory Body. 
Standardized baselines shall  be established at the highest possib le level of aggregation in the 
relevant sector of the host Party  and be consistent with paragraph 33 above . 
38. Each mechanism methodology shall specify the approach to demonstrating the 
additionality of the activity. Additionality shall be demonstrated using a robust assessment that shows  the activity would not have occurred in the absence of the incentives from the 
mechanism, taking into account all relevant national policies, including legislation, and FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
 35 representing mitigation that exceeds any mitigation that  is required by law or regulation, and 
taking a conservative approach that avoids locking in levels of emissions, technologies or 
carbon -intensive practices incompatible with paragraph 33 above.  
39. The Supervisory Body may apply simplified approaches for demo nstration  of 
additionality for any least developed country or small island developing State at the request of that Party, in accordance with requirements developed by the Supervisory Body.  
C. Approval and authorization  
40. The host Party shall provide to the Supe rvisory Body an approval of the activity, prior 
to a request for registration. The approval shall include:  
(a) Confirmation  that and information on how the activity fosters sustainable 
development in the host Party;  
(b) Approval of any potential renewal of the cre diting period, if the Party intends 
to allow the activity to continue beyond the first crediting period, where the Party has specified that the crediting periods of Article 6, paragraph 4, activities that it intends to host 
may be renewed pursuant to parag raph 27(b) above;  
(c) Explanation of how the activity relates to the implementation of its NDC and 
how the expected emission  reductions or removals contribute to the host Party’s NDC and 
the purposes referred to in Article 6, paragraph 1.  
41. The host Party shall provide to the Supervisory Body the Article 6, paragraph 4(b) , 
authorization of public or private entities to participate in the activity as activity participants 
under the mechanism.  
42. The host Party shall  provide a statement to the Supervisory Body specifying whether 
it authorizes A6.4ERs issued for the activity for use towards achievement of NDCs and/or for other international mitigation purposes as defined in decision 2/CMA.3 . If the host Party 
authorizes  any such uses, the Party may provide  relevant information on the authorization, 
such as any applicable terms and provisions. If the host Party authorizes A6.4ERs for use for other international mitigation purposes, it shall specify how it defines “ first transfer ” 
consistent ly with paragraph 2(b)  of the  annex to decision 2/CMA.3 . 
43. A6.4ERs may only be used towards NDCs or towards international mitigation 
purposes if they are authorized in accordance with paragraph 42 above.  The host Party shall 
apply correspo nding adjustments for such A6.4ERs first transferred in accordance with 
chapters IX (Avoiding the use of emission reductions by more than one Party) and X  (Use of 
emission reductions for other international mitigation purposes) below and shall apply corres ponding adjustments for the associated A6.4ERs levied for a share of proceeds in 
accordance with chapter VII below  (Levy of share of proceeds for adaptation and 
administrative expenses) and cancelled for overall mitigation of global emissions in accordance with chapter VIII  below (Delivering overall mitigation in global emissions) . 
44. The host Party shall apply a corresponding adjustment for A6.4ERs that are authorized 
for other purposes, in accordance with chapter X  below (Use of emission reductions for other  
international mitigation purposes) , and shall apply corresponding adjustments for the 
associated A6.4ERs levied for a share of proceeds  in accordance with chapter VII  below 
(Levy of share of proceeds for adaptation and administrative expenses)  and cancell ed for 
overall mitigation of global emissions in accordance with chapter VIII  below (Delivering 
overall mitigation in global emissions) .  
45. Other participating Parties shall provide to the Supervisory Body the Article 6, 
paragraph 4(b),  authorization for public or private entities to participate in the activity as 
activity participants under the mechanism prior to any first transfer of any A6.4ERs to the mechanism registry account of such Party or public or private entity.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/ 10/Add.1  
36  D. Validation  
46. A designated operational entity shall independently assess the activity against the 
requirements set out in these rules, modalities and procedures, further relevant decisions of 
the CMA and relevant requirements adopted by the Supervisory Body (hereinafter re ferred 
to as validation).  
E. Registration  
47. If the designated operational entity concludes that the outcome of the validation is 
positive, it shall submit to the Supervisory Body a request for registration with the validation outcome in accordance with the relevant requirements adopted by the Supervisory Body.  
48. The activity participants shall pay a share of proceeds, at a level determined by the 
CMA, taking into account  the likely scale of the activity, to cover the administrative expenses 
for registering the activity when submitting a request for registration.  
49. If the Supervisory Body decides that the validation and its outcome meet the relevant 
requirements adopted by t he Supervisory Body, it shall register the activity as an Article 6, 
paragraph 4, activity.  
F. Monitoring  
50. The activity participants shall monitor emission reductions achieved by the activity 
during each monitoring period, in accordance with the relevant requi rements adopted by the 
Supervisory Body. The activity participants shall also monitor potential reversals over a period to be decided by the Supervisory Body.  
G. Verification and certification  
51. A designated operational entity shall independently review and de termine the 
implementation of, and the emission reductions achieved by, the Article 6, paragraph 4, activity during the monitoring period (hereinafter referred to as verification) against the requirements set out in these rules, modalities and procedures, further relevant decisions of the CMA and relevant requirements adopted by the Supervisory Body, and provide written assurance of the verified emission reductions (hereinafter referred to as certification).  
H. Issuance  
52. For the issuance of A6.4ERs, the designa ted operational entity shall submit to the 
Supervisory Body a request for issuance with the verification outcome and certification in 
accordance with the relevant requirements adopted by the Supervisory Body.  
53. If the Supervisory Body decides that the verifi cation, certification and their outcome 
meet the relevant requirements adopted by the Supervisory Body, it shall approve the 
issuance of A6.4ERs.  
54. The mechanism registry administrator shall, in accordance with the relevant 
requirements adopted by the Supervisory Body, issue the A6.4ERs into the mechanism registry.  
55. The mechanism registry shall distinguish A6.4ERs that are authorized for use towards 
the achievement of NDCs and/or for use for other international mitigation purposes pursuant to chapter V.C  above  (Approval and authorization) , including any specified uses for which 
the A6.4ERs are authorized.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
 37 I. Renewal of the crediting period  
56. The crediting period of a registered Article 6, paragraph 4, activity may be renewed 
in accordance with further relevant deci sions of the CMA and relevant requirements adopted 
by the Supervisory Body, if the host Party has approved such renewal in accordance with 
paragraph 27(b) above . 
57. The renewal of a crediting period shall be approved by the Supervisory Body and the 
host Party  following a technical assessment by a designated operational entity to determine 
necessary updates to the baseline, the additionality and the quantification of emission 
reductions.  
J. First transfer from the mechanism registry  
58. At issuance, the mechanism regi stry administrator shall effect a first transfer of  5 per 
cent of the issued A6.4ERs to an account held by the Adaptation Fund in the mechanism 
registry for assisting developing country Parties that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of cli mate change to meet the costs of adaptation.  
59. At issuance, the mechanism registry administrator shall also
 effect a first transfer, for 
cancellation, of a minimum of 2 per cent of the issued A6.4ERs to the account for cancellation for delivering overall mit igation in global emissions in accordance with chapter VIII below  
(Delivering overall mitigation in global emissions).  
60. The mechanism registry administrator shall forward or effect a first transfer , as 
applicable , of the remaining issued A6.4ERs in accordance with the instructions of the 
activity participants and with any further modalities adopted by the CMA and relevant requirements adopted by the Supervisory Body.  
K. Voluntary cancellation  
61. Activity participants may voluntarily request the mechanism r egistry administrator to 
cancel in the mechanism registry a specified amount of A6.4ERs issued in respect of their Article 6, paragraph 4, activity.  
L. Other processes associated with Article 6, paragraph 4, activities  
62. Stakeholders, activity participants and participating Parties may appeal decisions of 
the Supervisory Body or request that a grievance be addressed by an independent grievance process . 
VI. Mechanism registry  
63. The mechanism registry shall contain at least a pending account, holding account, 
retirement  account, cancellation account, account for cancellation towards overall mitigation 
in global emissions and a share of proceeds for adaptation account, as well as a holding account for each Party and each public or private entity authorized per Article 6, paragraph 4(b), by a Party that requests an account where that entity meets the requisite identification 
requirements developed by the Supervisory Body.  The mechanism registry shall be 
connected to the international registry referred to in decision 2/CMA.3 .  
64. The mechanism registry shall be developed and operationalized in accordance with 
the relevant requirements adopted by the Supervisory Body that shall include operating at best practice standards for registries.  
65. The secretariat shall serve as the mechanism registry administrator and maintain and 
operate the mechanism registry under the supervision of the Supervisory Body.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/ 10/Add.1  
38  VII. Levy of share of proceeds for adaptation and administrative 
expenses  
66. The share of proceeds that is levied to assist developing c ountry Parties that are 
particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change to meet the costs of adaptation 
shall be delivered to the Adaptation Fund pursuant to decisions 13/CMA.1 and 1/CMP.14.  
67. The share of proceeds to assist developing count ry Parties that are particularly 
vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change to meet the costs of adaptation shall be comprised of:  
(a) A levy of 5 per  cent of A6.4ERs at issuance;  
(b) A monetary contribution related to the scale of the Article 6, paragraph 4, 
activity or to the number of A6.4ERs issued, to be set by the Supervisory Body;  
(c) After the mechanism becomes self -financing, a periodic contribution from the 
remaining funds received from administrative expenses as per paragraph 68 below, after 
setting  aside the operating costs for the mechanism and an operating reserve, at a level and 
frequency to be determined by the CMA.  
68. The share of proceeds to cover administrative expenses shall be set in monetary terms 
at a level and implemented in a manner to be determined by the CMA.  
VIII.  Delivering overall mitigation in global emissions  
69. Delivery of overall mitigation in global emissions shall be enhanced through 
mandatory cancellation  of A6.4ERs that are also accounted for in accordance with the 
following:  
(a) The mech anism registry administrator shall effect a first transfer of a minimum 
of 2 per cent of the issued A6.4ERs to the cancellation account in the mechanism registry for 
overall mitigation in accordance with chapter V above (Article 6, paragraph 4, activity cy cle), 
where those A6.4ERs shall be cancelled;  
(b) The cancelled A6.4ERs shall not be further transferred or used for any purpose, 
including towards achievement of any NDC or for other international mitigation purposes or for other purposes;  
(c) At first transfer o f the remaining issued A6.4ERs, the host Party shall make a 
corresponding adjustment consistently with decision 2/CMA.3  for the number of issued 
A6.4ERs first transferred . 
70. In addition to the above,  Parties, activity participants and stakeholders may also 
request the voluntary cancellation of A6.4ERs in the mechanism registry for the purpose of 
delivering further overall mitigation in global emissions that have been correspondingly adjusted in accorda nce with chapter III.B of decision 2/CMA.3 .  
IX. Avoiding the use of emission reductions by more than one 
Party 
71. Where a host Party has authorized A6.4ERs for use towards the achievement of NDCs 
pursuant to chapter V.C above  (Approval and authorization) , it sha ll apply a corresponding 
adjustment for the first transfer of all authorized A6.4ERs, consistent ly with decision 
2/CMA.3 . FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
 39 X. Use of emission reductions for other international mitigation 
purposes  
72. Where a host Party has authorized A6.4ERs for use for other int ernational mitigation 
purposes pursuant to chapter V.C  above (Approval and authorization)  above, it shall apply a 
corresponding adjustment for the first transfer of all authorized A6.4ERs, consistent ly with 
decision 2/CMA.3 . 
XI. Transition  of clean development  mechanism activities and 
use of certified emission reductions towards first nationally 
determined contribution  
A. Transition of clean development mechanism activities  
73. Project activities and programmes of activities registered under the clean development 
mechanism under Article 12 of the Kyoto Protocol (CDM) or listed as provisional as per the 
temporary measures adopted by the Executive Board of the CDM may transition to  the 
mechanism and be registered as Article 6, paragraph 4, activities subject to all of the 
following conditions:  
(a) The request to transition the CDM project activity or programme of activity  
being made to the secretariat and the CDM host  Party as defined by decision 3/CMP.1 by or 
on behalf of the project participants that were approved by that CDM host Party by no later than 31 December 2023;  
(b) The approval for such transition of the CDM project activity or programme of 
activity being provided to the Supervisory Body by the CDM host Party by no later than 31 
December 2025;  
(c) Subject to paragraph 73(d) below, the compliance with these rules, modalities 
and procedures, including on the application of a corresponding adjustment consistent with decision 2/CMA.3,
 relevant requirements adopted by the Supervisory Body and any further 
relevant decisions of the CMA;  
(d) The activity may continue to apply its current approved CDM methodology 
until the earlier of the end of its current crediting period or 31 December 2025, following which it shall apply an approved methodology pursuant to chapter V.B above (Methodologies) . 
74. The Supervisory Body shall ensure that small -scale CDM project activities and CDM 
programmes of activities undergo an expedited transition process in accordance with decisions of the Supervisory Body by prioritizing the requests to transition from such 
activities following the approval referred to in paragraph 73(b) above.  
B. Use of certified emission reduction s towards first or first updated 
nationally determined contributions  
75. Certified emission reductions (CERs) issued under the CDM may be used towards 
achievement of an NDC provided the following conditions are met:  
(a) The CDM project  activity or programme of acti vities was registered on or after 
1 January 2013;  
(b) The CERs shall be transferred to and held in the mechanism registry and 
identified as pre -2021 emission reductions ;  
(c) The CERs may be used towards achievement of the first NDC only;  
(d) The CDM host Party shall not be required to apply a corresponding adjustment 
consistently with decision 2/CMA.3  in respect of the CERs and not be subject to the share of FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/ 10/Add.1  
40  proceeds pursuant to chapter VII above (Levy of share of proceeds for adaptation and 
administrative expenses);  
(e) CERs not meeting the conditions referred to  in paragraph 75(a –d) above may 
only be used for achievement of an NDC in accordance with a relevant  future  decision of the 
CMA;  
(f) Temporary CERs and long -term CERs  shall not be used towards NDCs.  
12th plenary meeting  
13 Novemb er 2021FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
 41 Decision 4/CMA.3  
Work programme under the framework for non -market 
approaches referred to in Ar ticle 6, paragraph 8 , of the Paris 
Agreement  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
Recalling  the framework for non- market approaches to sustainable development 
referred to in Article 6 , paragraph 9, of the Paris Agreement,  
Also recalling the tenth preambular paragraph of the Paris Agreement , in which 
Parties  take into account  the imperatives of a just transition of the workforce and the 
creation of decent work and quality jobs in accor dance with nationally defined 
development priorities,   
Further recalling  the eleventh preambular paragraph of the Paris Agreement, 
acknowledging that climate change is a common concern of humankind, Parties should, 
when taking action to address climate change, respect, promote and consider their respective obligations on human rights, the right to health, the rights of indigenous peoples, local communities, migrants, children, persons with disabilities and people in vulnerable situations and the right to development, as well as gender equality, empowerment of women and intergenerational equity,  
Recalling the objective, referred to in decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 39, of the work 
programme under the framework for non -market approaches referred to in Article 6, 
paragraph 8,  of the Paris Agreement,  
Recognizing that the work programme is to be implemented in the context of the 
Paris Agreement in its entirety, including its preamble,  
1. Recognizes the importance of integrated, holistic and balanced non- marke t 
approaches to enable voluntary cooperation being available to Parties to assist in the implementation of their nationally determined contributions, in the context of sustainable development and poverty eradication, in a coordinated and effective manner;  
2. Adopts  the work programme under the framework for non- market approaches referred 
to in decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 39, as contained in the annex;  
3. Decides  that initial focus areas of the work programme activities,  referred to in 
paragraph 8(a)(i).a of the a nnex, include , but are not limited to , the following:  
(a) Adaptation, resilience and sustainability; 
(b) Mitigation measures to address climate change and contribute to  sustainable 
development;  
(c) Development of clean energy sources;  
4. Requests  the Glasgow Committee on  Non-market Approaches to develop and 
recommend a schedule
 for implementing the work programme activities referred to in chapter 
V of the annex (Work programme activities), which may contain the timeline and expected outcomes for each activity, including s pecifications for the UNFCCC web -based platform 
referred to in paragraph 8(b)(i) of the annex, such as its functions, form, target users and information to be contained thereon, with a view to supporting the effective implementation of the work programme, for consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its fourth session (November 2022);  
5. Encourages  Parties , public and private sector stakeholders and civil society 
organizations to actively engage in the research, development and implementation of non -
market approaches;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
42  6. Invites  Parties and observers to submit via the submission portal1 by 28 February 2022 
views and information on:   
(a) Existing relevant non -market approaches that may be facilitated under the 
framework in the initial focus areas referred to in paragraph 3 above that are in accordance 
with the provisions referred to in chapter II of the annex (No n-market approaches under the 
framework);  
(b) Examples of potential additional focus areas of non- market approaches that 
may be facilitated under the framework (e.g. social inclusivity, financial policies and measures, circular economy, blue carbon, just trans ition of the workforce, adaptation benefit 
mechanism) and existing relevant non- market approaches that may be facilitated under the 
framework in the potential additional focus areas that are in accordance with the provisions referred to in chapter II of th e annex (Non- market approaches under the framework);  
(c) The UNFCCC web -based platform referred to in paragraph 8(b)(i) of the 
annex, including how to operationalize it (e.g. functions, form, target users, information to be contained thereon, timeline for deve lopment and implementation, and lessons learned 
from existing relevant tools, including under the Convention and the Paris Agreement);  
(d) The schedule for implementing the work programme activities;  
7. Requests  the secretariat to prepare a synthesis report on th e matters referred to in 
paragraph 6 above for consideration by the Glasgow Committee on Non- market Approaches 
at its 1
st meeting , to be held in  June 2022;  
8. Also requests  the secretariat to:  
(a) Organize an in -session workshop, with the broad participation of relevant 
experts, on the matters referred to in paragraph 6 above,  taking into consideration the 
submissions and synthesis report on the matters, to be held in conjunction with the fifty -sixth  
session of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological  Advice  (June 2022);  
(b) Prepare a report on that workshop for consideration by the Glasgow Committee 
on Non -market Approaches at its 2nd meeting , to be held in  November 2022;  
9. Decides  to review the report of the Glasgow Committee on Non- market Approaches  
and provide guidance on the framework and the work programme, as appropriate;  
10. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice  to review the 
work programme, including its activities, at its sixty -fourth (June 2026) and sixty- fifth 
(November 2026) sessions  with a view to enhancing the effectiveness of the work 
programme, taking into account relevant inputs, including the outcomes of the global stocktake, and to make recommendations thereon for consideration and adoption by the  
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  by no 
later than at its eighth session (2026);  
11. Takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in t his decision;  
12. Requests  that the actions called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the 
availability of financial resources;  
13. Invites  Parties to make contributions to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities 
for implementing the work programme.  
 
 1 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx . FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
 43 Annex  
  Work programme under the framework for non -market 
approaches referred to in Article 6, paragraph 8, of the Paris 
Agreement  
I. Principles  
1. The following principles, in addition to the elements reflected in Article1 6, 
paragraphs  8–9, and decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 39, guide the implementation of the 
framework for non -market approaches (NMAs) referred to in Article 6, paragraph 9, and the 
work programme under the framework referred to in decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 39:  
(a) The framework:  
(i) Facilitates the use and coordination of NMAs in the implementation of Parties’ 
nationally determined contributions (NDCs) in the context of sustainable development 
and poverty eradication;  
(ii) Enhances linkages and creates synergies between, inter alia , mitigation, 
adaptation, finance, technology development and transfer, and capacity- building, 
while a voiding duplication of the efforts under the framework with the work of the 
subsidiary and constituted bodies under the Convention and the Paris Agreement , 
taking into account the mandates of these bodies ; 
(b) NMAs facilitated under the framework repres ent:  
(i) Voluntary cooperative actions that are not reliant on market -based approaches 
and that do not include transactions or quid pro quo operations;  
(ii) Integrated, innovative and transformational actions that have significant 
potential to deliver higher mitig ation and adaptation ambition; 
(iii) Actions that support the implementation of NDCs of Parties  hosting NMAs 
(hereinafter referred to as host Parties) and contribute to achieving the long -term 
temperature goal of the Paris Agreement;  
(c) The work programme, consistent ly with its objective referred to in decision 
1/CP.21, paragraph 39, aims to identify measures to facilitate NMAs and enhance linkages and create synergies as referred to in paragraph 1(a) above.  
II. Non-market approaches under the framewo rk 
2. Each NMA facilitated under the framework, in the context of Article 6, paragraph 8 :  
(a) Aims to: 
(i) Promote mitigation and adaptation ambition;  
(ii) Enhance participation of public and private sector and civil society 
organizations  in the implementation of NDCs; 
(iii) Enable opportunities for coordination across instruments and relevant 
institutional arrangements; 
(b) Assists participating Parties in implementing their NDCs in an  integrated, 
holistic and balanced manner, including through, inter alia : 
(i) Mitigation, adaptation, finance, technology development and transfer, and 
capacity -building, as appropriate ; 
 
 1 “Article” refers  to an Article of the Paris Agreement, unless otherwise specified.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
44  (ii) Contribution to sustainable development and poverty eradication.  
3. In addition, each NMA facilitated under the framework:  
(a) Is identified by the part icipating Parties  on a voluntary basis ; 
(b) Involves more than one participating Party;  
(c) Does not involve the transfer of any mitigation outcomes ; 
(d) Facilitates  the implementation of NDCs of host Parties and contributes to 
achieving  the long -term temperature goal  of the Paris Agreement;  
(e) Is conducted in a manner that respects, promotes and considers respective 
obligations of Parties on human rights, the right to health, the rights of indigenous peoples, 
local communities, migrants, children, persons with disabilities and people in vulnerable situations and the right to development, as well as gender equality, empowerment of women and intergenerational equity, consistent ly with the eleventh preambular paragraph of the Paris 
Agreement;  
(f) Minimizes and, where possible, avoids negative environmental, economic and 
social impacts . 
III. Governance of the framework  
4. The Glasgow Committee on Non- market Approaches is hereby established to 
implement the framework and the work programme by providing Parties with opportunities 
for non -market -based cooperation to implement mitigation and adaptation actions in their 
NDCs.  
5. The Glasgow Committee  will be convened by the Chair of the Subsidiary Body for 
Scientific and Technological Advice (SBSTA) and operate in accordance with the procedures applicable to contact groups and under the guidance of the Chair. It will meet in conjunction 
with the first and second sessional period meeting of the SBSTA each year, with its 1
st 
meeting to take place in conjunction with SBSTA 56 ( June 2022) . 
6. The SBSTA will consider whether institutional arrangements for the framework that 
will supersede the Glasgow Committee are needed and make recommendations for 
consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of  the 
Parties to the Paris Agreement  (CMA) at its ninth session  (2027).  
IV. Modalities of the work programme  
7. The modalities of the work programme may include, as appropriate:  
(a) Workshops ;  
(b) Engagement with public and private sector stakeholders,  including technical 
experts, businesses, civil society  organizations and financial institutions ; 
(c) Submissions  from Parties , observers and public and private sector 
stakeholders ;  
(d) Technical  papers and synthesis reports prepared by the secretariat;  
(e) The colla boration, where needed, of the Glasgow Committee  with relevant 
bodies, institutional arrangements  and processes under or related to the Convention and the 
Paris Agreement , taking into account their mandates.  
V. Work programme activities  
8. The work programme will be initiated in 2022 and include, but not be limited to, the 
following activities:  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
 45 (a) Identifying measures for enhancing existing linkages, creating synergies and 
facilitating coordination and implementation of NMAs:  
(i) Identification o f NMAs:  
a. Identifying focus areas of the work programme activities;  
b. Identifying existing NMAs under the framework that are in accordance 
with the provisions referred to in chapter II above (Non- market approaches 
under the framework);  
(ii) Identification of meas ures:  
a. Identifying and evaluating positive and other experience of existing 
linkages, synergies, coordination and implementation in relation to NMAs;  
b. Identifying measures for enhancing existing linkages, creating 
synergies and facilitating coordination and implementation of NMAs, 
including in the local, subnational, national and global context;  
(b) Implementing measures:  
(i) Developing and implementing tools, with the assistance of the secretariat, 
including a  UNFCCC web -based platform for recording and exchanging information 
on NMAs, including information identified through the work programme, and 
supporting the identification of opportunities for participating Parties to identify, develop and implement NMAs ;  
(ii) Identifying and sharing information, best practices, l essons learned and case 
studies in relation to developing and implementing NMAs, including on how to:  
a. Replicate successful NMAs, including in the local, subnational, 
national and global context;  
b. Facilitate enabling environments and successful policy frame works;  
c. Enhance the engagement in NMAs by the private sector, civil society 
organizations and vulnerable and impacted sectors and communities;  
d. Leverage and generate mitigation co -benefits resulting from adaptation 
actions and/or economic diversification pla ns that assist the implementation of 
NDCs;  
e. Promote cooperation on NMAs between Parties that supports the 
implementation of ambitious NDCs contributing to the achievement of the 
long- term temperature goal of the Paris Agreement, including in relation to the  
development of NMAs;  
f. Estimate and report the impacts of NMAs on mitigation and adaptation;  
g. Establish guidelines, procedures and safeguards to facilitate NMAs;  
(iii) Identifying initiatives, programmes and projects for facilitating NMAs that 
support the implementation of NDCs to allow for higher mitigation and adaptation 
ambition in NDCs by:  
a. Establishing linkages with bodies, institutional arrangements and 
processes un der or related to the Convention and the Paris Agreement  in 
relation to,  inter alia , mitigation, adaptation, finance, technology development 
and transfer, and capacity -building, as appropriate ; 
b. Mapping the initiatives, programmes and projects at the local,  
subnational and national level, including those that support Parties in meeting the requirements for receiving support and provide capacity- building for the 
implementation of NMAs.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.1  
46  VI. Reporting  
9. The progress and outcomes of the work programme will be reported  at each session 
of the CMA, as appropriate, on the basis of information resulting from implementation of the 
work programme activities, which will also serve as inputs to the review of the work programme at CMA 7 (November 2025), with the report to include the following, as relevant: 
(a) Results of the implementation of the work programme activities;  
(b) Recommendations on how to enhance existing linkages and create synergies 
and how to facilitate coordination and implementation of NMAs;  
(c) Recommendations on how to facilitate  support for NMAs, including through 
engagement with relevant bodies, institutional arrangements and processes under the Convention and the Paris Agreement related to, inter alia , mitigation, adaptation, finance, 
technology development and transf er, and capacity -building;  
(d) Recommendations  on work  programme activities in implementing the 
framework.  
12
th plenary meeting  
13 Novemb er 2021  
      
 
GE.22 -03278(E)  
Conference of the Parties  serving as the meeting  
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
Report of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  on its  
third  session, held in Glasgow from 31 October to  
13 November 2021  
Addendu m 
Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its third session  
Contents  
Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
Decision  Page 
  5/CMA.3  Guidance for operationaliz ing the modalities, procedures and guidelines for the   
enhanced  transparency framework referred to in Article 13 of the Paris  
Agreement  ................................ ................................ ................................ .................   2  United Nations  FCCC /PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 
 
 
  
Distr.: General  
8 March  2022 
 
Original: English  
FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
2   Decision 5/CMA.3  
Guidance for operationalizing the modalities, procedures and 
guidelines for the enhanced transparency framework 
referred to in Article 13 of the Paris Agreement  
 The Conferen ce of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
Recalling  Article 13 of the Paris Agreement and decision 18/CMA.1 and its annex,  
Also recalling decision 20/CMA.1 and its annex,  
Further  recalling the annexes to  decisions 17/CP.8, 2/CP.17, 24/CP.19, 13/CP.20, 
9/CP.21 and 6/CP.25 , and decision 1/CP.24, paragraphs 39 –46,  
Recalling Article 13, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement and decision 1/CP.21, 
paragraph 89,  
Also recalling  the guiding principles referred to in decision 18/CMA.1, annex, 
paragraph  3, 
Further  recalling Article 13, paragraphs 14 –15, of the Paris Agreement, accordi ng to 
which support shall be provided to developing country Parties for the implementation of 
Article 13 of the Paris Agreement and  for the building of transparency -related capacity of 
developing country Parties on a continuous basis,  
Recalling decision 1/ CP.24, paragraph 43(a), according to which Parties may submit 
their national communication and biennial transparency report as a single report in 
accordance with the modalities, procedures and guidelines included in the annex to decision 
18/CMA.1 for infor mation also covered by the national communication reporting guidelines 
contained in, as applicable, decisions 4/CP.5 and 17/CP.8,  
1. Adopts :  
(a) The common reporting tables referred to in chapter II of the annex to decision 
18/CMA.1 for the electronic reporting  of the information in the national inventory reports of 
anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks of greenhouse gases, as contained 
in annex I ; 
(b) The common tabular formats referred to in chapter III of the annex to decision 
18/CMA.1 for the electronic reporting of the information necessary to track progress made 
in implementing and achieving nationally determined contributions under Article 4 of the 
Paris Agreement, as contained in annex II ;  
(c) The common tabular formats referred to in chapters  V–VI of the annex to 
decision 18/CMA.1 for the electronic reporting of the information on financial, technology 
development and transfer and capacity -building support provided and mobilized, as well as 
support needed and received, under Articles 9 –11 of t he Paris Agreement, as contained in 
annex III;  
(d) The outlines for the biennial transparency report, national inventory document 
and technical expert review report pursuant to the annex to decision 18/CMA.1, as contained 
in annexes IV, V and VI, respectively ;  
(e) The training programme for technical experts participating in the technical 
expert review of biennial transparency reports, as contained in annex VII;  
2. Encourages  Parties to prepare their biennial transparency report and national 
inventory document in a ccordance with the outlines contained in annexes IV and V, 
respectively;  
3. Decides that technical expert review teams will follow the technical expert review 
report outline contained in annex VI;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 3 4. Reaffirms  decision 18/CMA.1, annex, paragraph 79, which state s that each Party shall 
report the information referred to in paragraphs 65 –78 of that annex in a narrative and 
common tabular format, as applicable , noting that the information provided in the common 
tabular format may be further complemented by other for mats in a Party ’s biennial 
transparency report , as applicable;  
5. Decides  that those developing country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their 
capacities may , when reporting on a provision for which they have a capacity constraint , 
choose one or more of the following options, as applicable, to reflect the application of the  
specific flexibility provisions included in the annex to decision 18/CMA .1 in the common 
reporting tables and common tabular  formats , as contained in annexes I a nd II , respectively : 
(a) Use the new notation key “FX” (flexibility) in the relevant common reporting 
tables or common tabular formats, providing an explanation of how th e specific flexibility 
provision has been applied in the corresponding documentation box;  
(b) Collapse relevant row(s) or column(s) where  “FX” is reported in each cell in 
the row or column  and expand them again for display purposes, providing an explanation of 
how th e specific flexibility provision has been applied in the corresponding documentatio n 
box; 
(c) Collapse tables related to the four additional gases included in decision 
18/CMA1, annex, paragraph 48, where “FX” is reported in each cell in the row or column 
and expand it again for display purposes, providing an explanation of how the specific 
flexibility provision has been applied in the corresponding documentation box;  indicate the 
first year and last year of the inventory time series, consistent with decision 18/CMA.1, 
annex, paragraphs 57 –58, and generate columns and tables consistent with th is selection, 
providing an explanation of how the specific flexibility provision has been applied in the 
corresponding documentation boxes;  and i ndicate the thresholds selected, consistent with 
decision 18/CMA.1, annex, paragraphs 25 and 32, providing an e xplanation of how the 
specific flexibility provision has been applied in the corresponding documentation box;  
6. Requests  the secretariat to incorporate the formats and  approaches  referred to in 
paragraph 5 above into the reporting tools referred to in paragraph 8 below ; 
7. Also requests  the secretariat to incorporate the confidentiality approach referred to in 
paragraph 26 below into the reporting tools referred to in paragraph 8 below ; 
8. Further r equests the se cretariat to develop reporting tools for the electronic reporting 
of the common reporting tables and common tabular formats  (hereinafter referred to as the 
reporting tools) , taking into account the operationalization of the flexibility provisions 
referred to in paragraph 5 above, and make available a test version of the reporting tools by 
June 2023 with a view to the final version of the tools being completed by June 2024, su bject 
to the timely availability of sufficient financial resources;  
9. Requests  the secretariat to inform the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and 
Technological Advice on progress in the development of the reporting tools at its fifty -
seventh session  (November  2022) and at each subsequent session until the tools have been 
finalized;  
10. Invites  Parties to submit their views  on the ir experience with the test version of the 
reporting tools , including experience with integrating the tools into  their national inventory  
arrangements , and inputs on improv ing the tools at the latest six months after the release of 
the test version via the submission portal by December 2023 ;1 
11. Requests  the secretariat to produce a technical paper on these submissions, includ ing 
an assessment of the experience of Parties  with using the test version  of the reporting tools  
and challenges faced by developing country Parties in integrating the tools  into the ir national 
inventory arrangements for consideration by the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and 
Technological Advice at its sixtieth session (June 2024) ; 
12. Also r equests  the secretariat, once the test version of the reporting tools  becomes 
available, to organ ize regular technical training workshops ( online and/or in  person) to 
 
 1 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx .   FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
4  facilitate an interactive exercise with experts from Parties that demonstrate s the functions of 
the reporting tools;  
13. Further requests  the secretariat to prepare a report on how the input s of Parties on the 
test version of the reporting tools  have been considered in the final version  of the tools  to 
present this to the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice  at the next 
session following finalization  of the reporting tools;  
14. Requests  the secretariat , once the final version of the reporting tools is released , to 
organize regular technical training workshops ( online and/or in  person) to facilitate an 
interactive exercise with  experts from Parties that demonstrate s the functions of the reporting 
tools and to facilitate peer learning and the sharing of experience among Party experts in 
using the reporting tools and integrating the m into their national inventory arrangements ; 
15. Also requests  the secretariat to develop user manuals for the reporting tools;  
16. Further requests  the secretariat to provide training and advice to developing country 
Parties on the use of the reporting tools and to provide technical support to these countri es, 
including those that use the  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change inventory software , 
to the extent possible , on integrat ing the reporting tools into their national greenhouse gas  
inventory arrangements;   
17. Decides  that, if the final version of the reporting tool for common reporting tables for 
inventory information is not available within the time frame referred to in paragraph 8  above, 
Parties can submit the national inventory report after 31 December 2024, with a delay not 
exceeding the delay in t he availability of the reporting tool ; 
18. Also decides  that, if the reporting tools for common tabular formats for the information 
reported pursuant to decision 18/CMA.1, annex, chapters  III, V and VI, are not available 
within the time frame referred to in paragraph 8  above, Parties shall submit the information 
in the biennial transparency report (excluding common tabular  formats ) in line with the 
agreed deadlines but can submit the commo n tabular formats after 31 December 2024, with 
a delay not exceeding the delay in the availability of the reporting tools ; 
19. Requests the secretariat to facilitate interoperability between the reporting tools and 
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change  inventory software;  
20. Invites  the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change to engage in the work referred 
to in paragraph 19  above;  
21. Also invites the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change to organize a technical 
training workshop in the second half of 2024 on its inventory software and the linkages of 
the software with the reporting tool for the electronic reporting of common reporting tables 
referred to in paragraph 8  above;  
22. Requests  the secretariat to establish an interactive web portal to facilitate the 
availability of information, by parameter and by year, reported by Parties in their biennial 
transparency reports in accordance with decision 18/CMA.1, annex, paragraphs 118 –145; 
23. Also requests  the secretariat to make the web portal referred to in paragraph 22  above 
available from December 2025 ; 
24. Emphasizes  that each interested Party may provide, as appropriate, information 
related to enhancing understanding, action and support, on a cooperative and facilitative 
basis, to avert, minimize and address loss and damage associated with climate change impacts 
in chapter IV of its biennial transparency report, pursuant to decision 18/CMA.1, annex, 
paragraph 115;  
25. Clarifies that the 100 -year time -horizon global warming potential values referred to 
in decision 18/CMA.1, annex, paragraph 37, shall be those listed in tab le 8.A.1 of the Fifth 
Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, excluding the value 
for fossil methane;   
26. Recall s that, in accordance with decision 18/CMA.1, annex, paragraph 47, a minimum 
level of aggregation is needed to protect  confidential business and military information and 
that in such cases a Party shall provide to the technical expert review team information on 
methods used to estimate emissions and removals for relevant subcategories in accordance FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 5 with good practice elab orated in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 2006 IPCC 
Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories , as well as the descriptions, 
assumptions, references and sources of information used ;  
27. Also recalls  decision 18/CMA.1, annex, paragraph 31 , and notes  that when 
information on emission factors, activity data and/or emissions by sources and removals by 
sinks of greenhouse gases  are not available at the most disaggregated level, the notation key 
“IE” may be used to indicate the data are include d elsewhere in the inventory instead of under 
the expected source  or sink category ; 
28. Notes that Parties may use on a voluntary basis the Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change 2019 Refinement to the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas 
Invent ories ; 
29. Requests the secretariat to undertake a mapping exercise of the categories in the 2006 
IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories  and those in the common 
reporting tables to identify differences in category names and to make the finding s of this 
mapping exercise available to national greenhouse gas inventory compilers;  
30. Also requests the secretariat, incorporating, as appropriate , technical advice from the 
Consultative Group of Experts and lead reviewers, to develop the training programme  for 
technical experts participating in the technical expert review of biennial transparency reports, 
as outlined in annex VII, taking into account experience and lessons learned from developing 
existing training programmes under the Convention;  
31. Further re quests  the secretariat to implement the training programme for technical 
experts participating in the technical expert review of biennial transparency reports, as 
outlined in annex VII, taking into account technical advice from the Consultative Group of 
Experts and the lead reviewers to the secretariat on the implementation of training for 
technical experts participating in the technical expert review of biennial transparency reports;  
32. Requests  the secretariat to report to the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and 
Technological Advice on progress in the development of the training programme at its fifty -
seventh session and at each subsequent session until the development of the training 
programme h as been completed ; 
33. Also r equests the secretariat to make the courses comprising the training programme, 
as outlined in paragraph 10  of annex VII , available beginning  1 March 2023, prioritizing the 
development of training courses aimed at providing a genera l overview of the enhanced 
transparency framework under the Paris Agreement and making the other courses, relating 
to information to be reviewed in accordance with decision 18/CMA.1, annex, paragraph 150, 
available by September 2023, and subject to the tim ely availability of sufficient financial 
resources;  
34. Further  requests the secretariat to promote geographical and gender balance among 
the technical review experts participating in the training programme referred to in paragraph 
30 above, to the extent poss ible, giving special consideration, including in terms of support 
for participating in the training programme, to experts from developing countries, particularly 
the least developed countries and small island developing States;  
35. Notes  that the information r eported pursuant to decision 18/CMA.1 , annex, chapter 
IV, is not covered by the scope of the technical expert review pursuant to decision 18/CMA , 
annex, paragraph 150, and that voluntary review of such reported information is not 
prohibited under the same decision ; 
36. Also n otes that Parties have expressed interest in the possibility of request ing that th e 
information referred to in paragraph 35  above be reviewed on a voluntary basis;  
37. Recognizes the important role that review of the information could play in improving 
the reporting of th e information  referred to in paragraph 35 above ; 
38. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice to consider at 
its fifty -sixth session (June 2022) the options for conducting reviews on a voluntary basis of 
the information reported pursuant to decision 18/CMA.1, annex, chapter IV, and respec tive 
training courses needed to facilitate these voluntary reviews, including the associated FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
6  budgetary considerations, with a view to recommending a draft decision on this matter for 
consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties serving as th e meeting of the 
Parties to the Paris Agreement at its fourth session (November 2022);  
39. Invites  Parties to submit their views on the matters identified in paragraph 38  above 
via the submission portal2 by 30 April 2022;  
40. Also invites  the committee to facilit ate implementation and promote compliance  
referred to in Article 15, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement to liaise with lead reviewers, 
as needed, when identifying  cases of significant and persistent inconsistencies referred to in 
decision 20/CMA.1, annex,  paragraph 22(b ); 
41. Further invites  developed country Parties, and other Parties on a voluntary basis, to 
provide financial resources to enable the secretariat to provide timely and comprehensive 
training to all Parties on using the common reporting tables a nd common tabular formats and 
the corresponding reporting tools;  
42. Decides to consider at  its fourth session and at each session thereafter an item on  
“Reporting and review pursuant to Article 13 of the Paris Agreement: provision of financial 
and technical s upport to developing country Parties for reporting and capacity -building ”, 
which will include consideration  of the  support provided to developing country Parties for 
reporting and related capacity -building under Article 13 of the Paris Agreement ;  
43. Recogniz es the need for enhanced support from various sources and channels, 
including the Global Environment Facility, for implementing the enhanced transparency 
framework ; 
44. Welcomes  the arrangements of the Global Environment Facility for providing 
financial suppor t to developing country Parties for preparing their first and subsequent 
biennial transparency reports, as requested in decision 18/CMA.1, paragraph  8; 
45. Takes note of decision  12/CMA.3 on matters related to guidance to the Global 
Environment Facility;  
46. Encourages developing country Parties to prepare and submit project proposals in 
order to receive financial support from the Global Environment Facility for preparing their 
biennial transparency reports;  
47. Invites  the Consultative Group of Experts to take into account paragraph 1 above in 
its efforts to support implementation of the enhanced transparency framework in accordance 
with decision 18/CMA.1, paragraph 15 ; 
48. Confirms the due date  for submission of the annual greenhouse gas  inventories by 
deve loped country Parties as contained in decision 3/CP.1;  
49. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 8, 11 –16, 19, 21 –22 and 29 –31 above;  
50. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
1. 
 
 2 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx . FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 7 Annex I  
Common reporting tables for the electronic reporting of the 
information in the natio nal inventory reports of 
anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks of 
greenhouse gases  
[English only]  
 The common reporting tables for the electronic reporting of the information in the 
national inventory reports of anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks of 
greenhouse gases  are available at  https://unfccc.int/documents/311076 . 
 
1. FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
8  Annex II * 
Common tabular formats for the electronic reporting of the 
information necessary to track progress made in 
implementing and achieving nationally determined 
contributions under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement  
[English only]  
1. Structured summary: Description of selected indicators  
Indicator(s) selected to track progressa Description  
{Indicator}   
Information for the reference point(s), level(s), 
baseline(s), base year(s) or starting point(s), as 
appropriateb  
Updates in accordance with any recalculation of 
the GHG inventory, as appropriateb  
Relation to NDCc  
 
 
Notes : (1) Pursuant to para. 79 of the MPGs, each Party shall report the information referred to in paras. 65 –78 of 
the MPGs in a narrative and common tabular format, as applicable. (2) A Party may amend the reporting format (e.g. 
Excel file) to remove specific rows in this table if the information to be provided in those rows is not applicable to the 
Party’s NDC under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement, in accordance with the MPGs. (3) The  Party could add rows for 
each additional selected indicator and related information.  
a  Each Party shall identify the indicator(s) that it has selected to track progress of its NDC (para. 65 of the MPGs).  
b  Each Party shall provide the information for e ach selected indicator for the reference point(s), level(s), 
baseline(s), base year(s) or starting point(s), and shall update the information in accordance with any recalculation of 
the GHG inventory, as appropriate (para. 67 of the MPGs).  
c  Each Party shall describe for each indicator identified how it is related to its NDC (para. 76(a) of the MPGs).  
Custom footnotes:  
Documentation box:  
  
 
 * The list of the acronyms and abbreviations  used in this annex can be found at the end of the document.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 9 2. Structured summary: Definitions needed to understand NDC  
 Definitionsa 
Definition needed to understand each indicator:   
{Indicator}   
Any sector or category defined differently than in 
the national inventory report:   
{Sector}   
{Category}   
Definition needed to understand mitigation co -
benefits of adaptation actions and/or economic 
diversification plans:   
{Mitigation co -benefit(s)}   
Any other relevant definitions:   
{…}   
 
 
Notes : (1) Pursuant to para. 79 of the MPGs, each Party shall report the information referred to in paras. 65 –78 of 
the MPGs in a narrative an d common tabular format, as applicable. (2) A Party may amend the reporting format (e.g. 
Excel file) to remove specific rows in this table if the information to be provided in those rows is not applicable to the 
Party’s NDC under Article 4 of the Paris Agr eement, in accordance with the MPGs. (3) The Party could add rows for 
each additional sector, category, mitigation co -benefits of adaptation actions and/or economic diversification plans, 
indicator and any other relevant definitions.  
a  Each Party shall provide any definitions needed to understand its NDC under Article 4, including those related to 
each indicator identified in para. 65 of the MPGs, those related to any sectors or categories defined differently than in 
the national invent ory report, or the mitigation co -benefits of adaptation actions and/or economic diversification plans 
(para. 73 of the MPGs).  
Custom footnotes:  
Documentation box:  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
10  3. Structured summary: Methodologies and accounting approaches – consistency with Article 4, paragraphs 13 and 14, of the 
Paris Agreement  and with decision 4/CMA.1  
Reporting requirement  Description or reference to the relevant section of the BTR  
For the first NDC under Article 4:a  
Accounting approach, including how it is consistent 
with Article 4, paragraphs 13 –14, of the Paris 
Agreement (para. 71 of the MPGs)   
For the second and subsequent NDC under Article 4, and 
optionally for the first NDC under Article 4:b  
Information on the accounting approach used is 
consistent with paragraphs 13 –17 and annex II of 
decision 4/CMA.1 (para. 72 of the MPGs)   
Explain how the accounting for anthropogenic 
emissions and removals is in accordance with 
methodologies and common metrics assessed by the 
IPCC and in accordance with decision 18/CMA.1 
(para. 1(a) of annex II to decision 4/CMA.1)   
Explain how consistency has been maintained between 
any GHG data and estimation methodologies used for 
accounting and the Party’s GHG inventory, pursuant to 
Article 13, paragraph 7(a), of the Paris Agreement, if 
applicable (para. 2(b) of annex II to decision 4/CMA.1)   
Explain ho w overestimation or underestimation has 
been avoided for any projected emissions and removals 
used for accounting (para. 2(c) of annex II to decision 
4/CMA.1)   
For each NDC under Article 4:b  
Accounting for anthropogenic emissions and removals 
in accordance with methodologies and common metrics 
assessed by the IPCC and adopted by the Conference 
of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to 
the Paris Agreement:   
Each methodology and/or accounting approach used 
to assess the implementation and achievement of the 
target(s), as applicable (para. 74(a) of the MPGs)   
Each methodology and/or accounting approach used 
for the construction of any baseline, to the extent 
possible (para. 74(b) of the MPGs)    
If the methodology or accounting approach used for 
the indicator(s) in table 1 differ from those used to 
assess the implementation and achievement the target, 
describe each methodology or accounting approach 
used to gen erate the information generated for each 
indicator in table 4 (para. 74(c) of the MPGs)    
Any conditions and assumptions relevant to the 
achievement of the NDC under Article 4, as 
applicable and available (para. 75(i) of the MPGs)   
Key parameters, assump tions, definitions, data 
sources and models used, as applicable and available 
(para. 75(a) of the MPGs)    
IPCC Guidelines used, as applicable and available 
(para. 75(b) of the MPGs)   
Report the metrics used, as applicable and available 
(para. 75(c) of the MPGs)   FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 11 Reporting requirement  Description or reference to the relevant section of the BTR  
For Parties whose NDC cannot be accounted for using 
methodologies covered by IPCC guidelines, provide 
information on their own methodology used, 
including for NDCs, pursuant t o Article 4, paragraph 
6, of the Paris Agreement, if applicable (para. 1(b) of 
annex II to decision 4/CMA.1)     
Provide information on methodologies used to track 
progress arising from the implementation of policies 
and measures, as appropriate (para. 1(d ) of annex II to 
decision 4/CMA.1)    
Where applicable to its NDC, any sector -, category - 
or activity -specific assumptions, methodologies and 
approaches consistent with IPCC guidance, taking 
into account any relevant decision under the 
Convention, as appli cable (para. 75(d) of the MPGs)   
For Parties that address emissions and subsequent 
removals from natural disturbances on managed 
lands, provide detailed information on the approach 
used and how it is consistent with relevant IPCC 
guidance, as appropriate, or indicate the relevant 
section of the national GHG inventory report 
containing that information (para. 1(e) of annex II to 
decision 4/CMA.1, para. 75(d)(i) of the MPGs)   
For Parties that account for emissions and removals 
from harvested wood products, provide detailed 
information on wh ich IPCC approach has been used 
to estimate emissions and removals (para. 1(f) of 
annex II to decision 4/CMA.1, para. 75(d)(ii) of the 
MPGs)    
For Parties that address the effects of age -class 
structure in forests, provide detailed information on 
the appr oach used and how this is consistent with 
relevant IPCC guidance, as appropriate (para. 1(g) of 
annex II to decision 4/CMA.1, para. 75(d)(iii) of the 
MPGs)   
How the Party has drawn on existing methods and 
guidance established under the Convention and its 
related legal instruments, as appropriate, if applicable 
(para. 1(c) of annex II to decision 4/CMA.1)   
Any methodologies used to account for mitigation co -
benefits of adaptation actions and/or economic 
diversification plans ( para. 75(e) of the MPGs)   
Describe how double counting of net GHG emission 
reductions has been avoided, including in accordance 
with guidance developed related to Article 6 if 
relevant ( para. 76(d) of the MPGs)    
Any other methodologies related to the NDC under 
Article 4 ( para. 75(h) of the MPGs)   
Ensuring methodological consistency, including on 
baselines, between the communication and 
implementation of NDCs (para. 12(b) of t he decision 
4/CMA.1 ):   
Explain how consistency has been maintained in 
scope and coverage, definitions, data sources, metrics, 
assumptions and methodological approaches 
including on baselines, between the communication  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
12  Reporting requirement  Description or reference to the relevant section of the BTR  
and implementation of NDCs (para. 2( a) of annex II 
to decision 4/CMA.1)  
Explain how consistency has been maintained 
between any GHG data and estimation methodologies 
used for accounting and the Party’s GHG inventory, 
pursuant to Article 13, paragraph 7(a), of the Paris 
Agreement, if applicable (para. 2(b) of annex II to 
decisi on 4/CMA.1)  and explain methodological 
inconsistencies with the Party’s most recent national 
inventory report, if applicable ( para. 76(c) of the 
MPGs)    
For Parties that apply technical changes to update 
reference points, reference levels or projections, the 
changes should reflect either of the following (para. 
2(d) of annex II to decision 4/CMA.1):   
Technical changes related to technical corrections to 
the Party’s inventory (para. 2(d)(i) of annex II to 
decision 4/CMA.1)    
Technical changes related to improvements in 
accuracy that maintain methodological consistency 
(para. 2(d)(ii) of annex II to decision 4/CMA.1)     
Explain how any methodological changes and 
technical updates made during the implementation of 
their NDC were transparently reported (para. 2(e) of 
annex II to decision 4/CMA.1)     
Striving to include all categories of anthropogenic 
emissions or removals in the NDC  and, once a source, 
sink or activity is included, continuing to include it 
(para. 3 of annex II to decision 4/CMA.1) :   
Explain how all categories of anthropogenic 
emissions and removals corresponding to their NDC 
were accounted for (para. 3(a) of annex II to decision 
4/CMA.1)   
Explain how Party is striving to include all categories 
of anthropogenic emissions and removals in its NDC, 
and, once a source, sink or activity is included, 
continue to include it (para. 3(b) of annex II to 
decision 4/CMA.1)   
Provide an explanation of why any categories of 
anthropogenic emissions or removals are excluded 
(para. 4 of annex II to dec ision 4/CMA.1)     
Each Party that participates in cooperative approaches 
that involve the use of ITMOs  towards an NDC under 
Article 4, or authorizes the use of mitigation outcomes for 
international mitigation purposes other than achievement 
of its NDC   
Provide information on any methodologies associated 
with any cooperative approaches that involve the use of 
ITMOs towards an NDC under Article 4 (para. 75(f) of 
the MPGs)   
Provide information on how each cooperative approach 
promotes sustainable developme nt, consistent with 
decisions adopted by the CMA on Article 6 (para. 
77(d)(iv) of the MPGs)   FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 13 Reporting requirement  Description or reference to the relevant section of the BTR  
Provide information on how each cooperative approach 
ensures environmental integrity consistent with 
decisions adopted by the CMA on Article 6 (para. 
77(d)(iv) o f the MPGs)   
Provide information on how each cooperative approach 
ensures transparency, including in governance, 
consistent with decisions adopted by the CMA on 
Article 6 (para. 77(d)(iv) of the MPGs)    
Provide information on how each cooperative appro ach 
applies robust accounting to ensure, inter alia, the 
avoidance of double counting, consistent with decisions 
adopted by the CMA on Article 6 (para. 77(d)(iv) of 
the MPGs)    
Any other information consistent with decisions 
adopted by the CMA on reporting under Article 6 
(para. 77(d)(iii) of the MPGs)    
 
 
Notes : (1) Pursuant to para. 79 of the MPGs, each Party shall report the information referred to in paras. 65 –78 of the MPGs in a 
narrative and common tabular format, as applicable. (2) A Party may amend the reporting format (e.g. Excel file) to remove sp ecific 
rows in this table if the information to be provided in those rows is not applicable to the Party’s NDC under Article 4 of t he Paris 
Agreement, in accordance with the MPGs.  
a  For the first NDC under Article 4, each Party shall clearly indicate and report its accounting approach, including how it is 
consistent with Article 4, paras. 13 –14, of the Paris Agreement (para. 71 of th e MPGs)  
b  For the second and subsequent NDC under Article 4, each Party shall provide information referred to in chapter III.B and C of  
the MPGs consistent with decision 4/CMA.1. Each Party shall clearly indicate how its reporting is consistent with decis ion 4/CMA.1 
(para. 72 of the MPGs). Each Party may choose to provide information on accounting of its first NDC consistent with decision 
4/CMA.1 (para. 71 of the MPGs).  
Custom footnotes:  
Documentation box:  
  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
14  
 
4. Structured summary : Tracking progress made in implementing and achieving the NDC under Article 4 of the Paris Agreementa 
 Unit, as 
applicable  Reference point(s), 
level(s), baseline(s), 
base year(s) or 
starting point(s),  
as appropriate   
(paras.  67 and 
77(a)(i) of the MPGs)  Implementation period of the NDC covering 
information for previous reporting years, as 
applicable, and the most recent year,  including 
the end year or end of period  
(paras.  68 and 77(a)(ii –iii) of the MPGs)  
Target 
levelb Target 
year or 
period  Progress made towards the NDC, as 
determined by comparing the most 
recent information for each selected 
indicator, including for the end year 
or end of period, with the reference 
point(s), level(s), baseline(s), base 
year(s) or starting point(s)  
(paras.  69–70 of the MPGs)  Year 1  Year 2  … … … End year  
Indicator(s) selected to track progress of the NDC or portion of 
NDC under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement ( paras.  65 and 77(a) 
of the MPGs):             
{Indicator}             
{Parties can add rows for each additional indicator and 
supporting information for each indicator, e.g. baseline values, 
baseline for the portion of NDC, target values, mitigation 
effects of policies and measures, etc.}             
Where applicable, total GHG emissions and removals consistent 
with the coverage of the NDC (para. 77(b) of the MPGs)             
Contribution from the LULUCF sector for each year of the target 
period or target year, if not included in the inventory time series 
of total net GHG emissions and removals, as applicable (para. 
77(c) of the MPGs)             
Each Party that participates in cooperative approaches that 
involve the use of ITMOs towards an NDC under Article 4 of the 
Paris Agreement, or authorizes the use of mitigation outcomes for 
international mitigation purposes other than achievement of the 
NDC, shall provide (para. 77(d) of the MPGs):             
If applicable, an indicative multi -year emissions trajectory, 
trajectories or budget for its NDC implementation period (para. 
7(a)(i), annex to decision 2/CMA.3)            
If applicable, multi -year emissions trajectory, trajectories or 
budget for its NDC implementation period that is consistent 
with the NDC (para. 7(b), annex to decision 2/CMA.3 )           
Annual anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by 
sinks covered by its NDC or, where applicable, from the 
emission or sink categories as identified by the host Party 
pursuant to paragraph 10 of annex to decision 2/CMA.3 (para. 
23(a), annex to decis ion 2/CMA.3)  (as part of para. 77 (d)(i) of 
the MPGs )            
Annual anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by 
sinks covered by its NDC or, where applicable, from the            
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 15 
 
 Unit, as 
applicable  Reference point(s), 
level(s), baseline(s), 
base year(s) or 
starting point(s),  
as appropriate   
(paras.  67 and 
77(a)(i) of the MPGs)  Implementation period of the NDC covering 
information for previous reporting years, as 
applicable, and the most recent year,  including 
the end year or end of period  
(paras.  68 and 77(a)(ii –iii) of the MPGs)  
Target 
levelb Target 
year or 
period  Progress made towards the NDC, as 
determined by comparing the most 
recent information for each selected 
indicator, including for the end year 
or end of period, with the reference 
point(s), level(s), baseline(s), base 
year(s) or starting point(s)  
(paras.  69–70 of the MPGs)  Year 1  Year 2  … … … End year  
portion of its NDC in accordance with paragraph 10 , annex to 
decision 2/CMA.3 (para. 23(b), annex to decision 2/CMA.3)  
If applicable, annual level of the relevant non -GHG indicator 
that is being used by the Party to track progress towards the 
implementation and achievement of its NDC and was selected 
pursuant to paragraph 65, annex to decision 18/CMA.1 ( para. 
23(i), annex, decision 2/CMA.3)             
Annual quantity of ITMOs first transferred (para. 23(c), annex 
to decision 2/CMA.3 ) (para. 77(d)(ii) of the MPGs)             
Annual quantity of mitigation outcomes authorized for use for 
other international mitigation purposes and entities authorized 
to use such mitigation outcomes, as appropriate ( para. 23(d), 
annex to decision 2/CMA.3 ) (para. 77(d)(ii) of the MPGs)             
Annual quantity of ITMOs used towards achievement of the 
NDC (para. 23(e), annex to decision 2/CMA.3 ) (para. 77(d)(ii) 
of the MPGs)             
Net annual quantity of ITMOs resulting from paras. 23(c) -(e), 
annex to decision 2/CMA.3 (para. 23(f), annex to  
decision 2/CMA.3 )            
If applicable, the cumulative amount of ITMOs, divided by the 
number of elapsed years in the NDC implementation period 
(para. 7(a)(ii), annex to decision 2/CMA.3)            
Total quantitative corresponding adjustments used to calculate 
the emissions balance referred to in para. 23(k)(i), annex to 
decision 2/CMA.3, in accordance with the Party’s method for 
applying corresponding adjustments consistent with section 
III.B, annex  to decision 2/CMA.3 (Application of 
corresponding adjustments) (para. 23(g), annex to decision  
2/CMA.3)             
The cumulative information in respect of the annual 
information in para. 23(f), annex to decision 2/CMA.3, as 
applicable (para. 23(h), annex to decision 2/CMA.3)             
For metrics in tonnes of CO 2 eq. or non -GHG, an annual 
emissions balance consistent with chapter III.B (Application of 
corresponding adjustment), annex, decision 2/CMA.3 (para.             
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
16  
 
 Unit, as 
applicable  Reference point(s), 
level(s), baseline(s), 
base year(s) or 
starting point(s),  
as appropriate   
(paras.  67 and 
77(a)(i) of the MPGs)  Implementation period of the NDC covering 
information for previous reporting years, as 
applicable, and the most recent year,  including 
the end year or end of period  
(paras.  68 and 77(a)(ii –iii) of the MPGs)  
Target 
levelb Target 
year or 
period  Progress made towards the NDC, as 
determined by comparing the most 
recent information for each selected 
indicator, including for the end year 
or end of period, with the reference 
point(s), level(s), baseline(s), base 
year(s) or starting point(s)  
(paras.  69–70 of the MPGs)  Year 1  Year 2  … … … End year  
23(k)(i), annex to decision 2/CMA.3 ) (as part of para. 77 (d)(ii) 
of the MPGs)  
For metrics in non -GHG, for each non -GHG metric determined 
by participating Parties, annual adjustments resulting in an 
annual adjusted indicator, consistent with para. 9 of chapter 
III.B (Corresponding adjustments), annex to decision 
2/CMA.3, and future g uidance to be adopted by the CMA 
(para. 23(k)(ii), annex to decision 2/CMA.3)              
Any other information consistent with decisions adopted by the 
CMA on reporting under Article 6 (para. 77(d)(iii) of the 
MPGs)             
Assessment of the achievement of the Party’s NDC under 
Article 4 of the Paris Agreement (para. 70 of the MPGs ):             
Restate the target of the Party’s NDC:             
Information for reference point(s), level(s), baseline(s), base 
year(s), or starting point(s):             
Final information for the indicator for the target year/period, 
including the application of the necessary corresponding 
adjustments consistent with chapter III, annex, decision  
2/CMA.3 (Corresponding adjustments) and consistent with 
future decisions from  the CMA (para. 23(l), annex to decision  
2/CMA.3):             
Comparison:             
Achievement of NDC: {yes/no, explanation}             
 
 
Notes : (1) Pursuant to para. 79 of the MPGs, each Party shall report the information referred to in paras. 65 –78 of the MPGs in a narrative and common tabular format, as applicable. (2) A 
Party may amend the reporting format (e.g. Excel file) to remove specific rows in this table if the informa tion to be provided in those rows is not applicable to the Party’s NDC under Article 4 
of the Paris Agreement, in accordance with the MPGs. (3) The Party could add rows for each additional selected indicator.  
a  This table could be used for each NDC target  in case Party’s NDC has multiple targets.  
b  Parties may provide information on conditional targets in a documentation box with references to the relevant page in their b iennial transparency report.  
Custom footnotes:  
Documentation box:  
  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 17 
 
5. Mitigation policies and measures, actions and plans, including those with mitigation co -benefits resulting from adaptation actions and economic diversification plans, related to 
implementin g and achieving a nationally determined contribution under Article 4 of the Paris Agreementa, b 
Namec Descriptiond, e, f Objectives Type of 
instrumentg Statush Sector(s) 
affecte di Gases 
affected Start year of 
implementation Implementing 
entity or entities Estimates of GHG emission 
reductions (kt CO 2 eq)j, k 
Achieved  Expected  
           
           
 
 
a  Each Party shall provide information on actions, policies and measures that support the implementation and achievement of its  NDC under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement, focusing on 
those that have the most significant impact on GHG emissions or removals and those impacting key categories in the national GHG inventory. This information shall be presented in narrative 
and tabular format (para. 80 of the MPGs).  
b  For each Party with an NDC under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement that consists of mitigation c o-benefits resulting from Parties’ adaptation actions and/or economic diversification plans 
consistent with Article 4, para. 7, information to be reported under paras. 80, 82 and 83 of the MPGs includes relevant infor mation on policies and measures contrib uting to mitigation co -
benefits resulting from adaptation actions or economic diversification plans (para. 84 of the MPGs).  
c  Parties may indicate whether a measure is included in the ‘with measures’ projections.  
d  Additional information may also be pro vided on the cost of the mitigation actions, non -GHG mitigation benefits, and how the mitigation action interacts with other mitigation actions, as 
appropriate (para. 83(a –c) of the MPGs) . 
e  Parties should identify actions, policies and measures that infl uence GHG emissions from international transport (para. 88 of the MPGs).  
f  Parties should, to the extent possible, provide information about how actions, policies and measures are modifying longer -term trends in GHG emissions and removals (para. 89 of the  
MPGs).  
g  Parties shall, to the extent possible, provide information on the types of instrument: regulatory, economic instrument or oth er (para. 82(d) of the MPGs).  
h  Parties shall, to the extent possible, use the following descriptive terms to report on  status of implementation: planned, adopted or implemented (para. 82(e) of the MPGs).  
i  Parties shall, to the extent possible, provide information on sector(s) affected: energy, transport, industrial processes and  product use, agriculture, LULUCF, waste m anagement or other 
(paras. 81 and 82(f) of the MPGs).  
j  Each Party shall provide, to the extent possible, estimates of expected and achieved GHG emission reductions for its actions,  policies and measures in the tabular format; those developing 
country Par ties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities with respect to this provision are instead encouraged to report t his information (para. 85 of the MPGs).  
k  To the extent available, each Party shall describe the methodologies and assumptions used to estimate the GHG emission reduct ions or removals due to each action, policy and measure. 
This information may be presented in an annex to the biennial transparenc y report (para. 86 of the MPGs).  
Custom footnotes:  
Documentation box:  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
18  6. Summary of greenhouse gas emissions and removals in accordance with the common reporting table 10 
emission trends – summary  
According to paragraph 91 of the MPGs, each Party that submits a stand -alone national inventory report shall provide a summary 
of its GHG emissions and removals. This information shall be provided for those reporting years corresponding to the Party’s 
most recent national inventory report, in a tabular format.  
7. Information on projections of greenhouse gas emissions and removals under a ‘with measures’ scenarioa, b 
 Most recent year in the Party’s national 
inventory report (kt CO 2 eq)c  Projections of GHG emissions and removals 
(kt CO 2 eq)c 
 20XX   20X( 0)(5)  20X(0)(5)  20X(0)(5)  
Sectord    
Energy     
Transport     
Industrial processes and product use     
Agriculture     
LULUCF     
Waste     
Other (specify)     
Gas    
CO 2 emissions including net CO 2 from LULUCF     
CO 2 emissions excluding net CO 2 from LULUCF     
CH 4 emissions including CH 4 from LULUCF     
CH 4 emissions excluding CH 4 from LULUCF     
N2O emissions including N 2O from LULUCF     
N2O emissions excluding N 2O from LULUCF     
HFCs     
PFCs     
SF6    
NF 3    
Other (specify)     
Total with LULUCF     
Total without LULUCF     
 
 
a  Each Party shall report projections pursuant to paras. 93 –101 of the MPGs; those developing country Parties that need flexibility 
in the light of their capacities are instead encouraged to report such projections (para. 92 of the MPGs).  
b  Those developing country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities with respect paras. 93 –101 of the MPGs can 
instead report using a less detailed methodology or coverage (para. 102 of the MPGs).  
c  Projections shal l begin from the most recent year in the Party’s national report and extend at least 15 years beyond the next year 
ending in zero or five; those developing country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities with respect to this 
provisio n have the flexibility to instead extend their projections at least to the end point of their NDC under Article 4 of the Pari s 
Agreement (para. 95 of the MPGs).  
d  In accordance with para. 82(f) of the MPGs.  
Custom footnotes:  
Documentation box:  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 19 8. Information on projections of greenhouse gas emissions and removals under a ‘with additional measures’ scenarioa, b 
 Most recent year in the Party’s national 
inventory report (kt CO 2 eq)c  Projections of GHG emissions and removals 
(kt CO 2 eq)c 
 20XX   20X(0)(5)  20X(0)(5)  20X( 0)(5)  
Sectord    
Energy     
Transport     
Industrial processes and product use     
Agriculture     
LULUCF     
Waste     
Other (specify)     
Gas    
CO 2 emissions including net CO 2 from LULUCF     
CO 2 emissions excluding net CO 2 from LULUCF     
CH 4 emissions including CH 4 from LULUCF     
CH 4 emissions excluding CH 4 from LULUCF     
N2O emissions including N 2O from LULUCF     
N2O emissions excluding N 2O from LULUCF     
HFCs     
PFCs     
SF6    
NF 3    
Other (specify)     
Total with LULUCF     
Total without LULUCF     
 
 
a  Each Party shall report projections pursuant to paras. 93 –101 of the MPGs; those developing country Parties that need flexibility 
in the light of their capacities are instead encouraged to report such projections (para. 92 of the MPGs).  
b  Those developin g country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities with respect paras. 93 –101 of the MPGs can 
instead report using a less detailed methodology or coverage (para. 102 of the MPGs).  
c  Projections shall begin from the most recent year i n the Party’s national report and extend at least 15 years beyond the next year 
ending in zero or five; those developing country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities with respect to this 
provision have the flexibility to instead e xtend their projections at least to the end point of their NDC under Article 4 of the Paris 
Agreement (para. 95 of the MPGs).  
d  In accordance with para. 82(f) of the MPGs.  
Custom footnotes:  
Documentation box:  
 
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
20  9. Information on projections of greenhouse gas emissions and removals under a ‘without measures’ scenarioa, b 
 Most recent year in the Party’s national 
inventory report (kt CO 2 eq)c  Projections of GHG emissions and removals 
(kt CO 2 eq)c 
 20XX   20X(0)(5)  20X(0)(5)  20X(0)(5)  
Sectord    
Energy     
Transport     
Industrial processes and product use     
Agriculture     
LULUCF     
Waste     
Other (specify)     
Gas    
CO 2 emissions including net CO 2 from LULUCF     
CO 2 emissions excluding net CO 2 from LULUCF     
CH 4 emissions including CH 4 from LULUCF     
CH 4 emissions excluding CH 4 from LULUCF     
N2O emissions including N 2O from LULUCF     
N2O emissions excluding N 2O from LULUCF     
HFCs     
PFCs     
SF6    
NF 3    
Other (specify)     
Total with LULUCF     
Total without LULUCF     
 
 
a  Each Party shall report projections pursuant to paras. 93 –101 of the MPGs; those developing country Parties that need flexibility 
in the light of their capacities are instead encouraged to report such projections (para. 92 of the MPGs).  
b  Those developin g country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities with respect paras. 93 –101 of the MPGs can 
instead report using a less detailed methodology or coverage (para. 102 of the MPGs).  
c  Projections shall begin from the most recent year i n the Party’s national report and extend at least 15 years beyond the next year 
ending in zero or five; those developing country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities with respect to this 
provision have the flexibility to instead e xtend their projections at least to the end point of their NDC under Article 4 of the Paris 
Agreement (para. 95 of the MPGs).  
d  In accordance with para. 82(f) of the MPGs.  
Custom footnotes:  
Documentation box:  
 
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 21 10. Projections of key indicatorsa, b 
Key indicator(s)c Unit, as 
applicable  Most recent year in the Party’s 
national inventory report, or the most 
recent year for which data are 
available   Projections of key indicatorsd 
20XX   20X(0)(5)  20X(0)(5)  20X(0)(5)  
{Key indicator}      
     
     
     
     
     
 
 
Note : The Party could add rows for each additional key indicator.  
a  Each Party shall report projections pursuant to paras. 93 –101 of the MPGs; those developing country Parties that 
need flexibility in the light of their capacities are instead encouraged to report such projections (para. 92 of the 
MPGs).  
b  Those developin g country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities with respect paras. 93 –101 of 
the MPGs can instead report using a less detailed methodology or coverage (para. 102 of the MPGs).  
c  Each Party shall also provide projections of key in dicators to determine progress towards its NDC under Article 4 
of the Paris Agreement (para. 97 of the MPGs).  
d  Future years extended to at least 15 years beyond the next year ending in zero or five; those developing country 
Parties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities with respect to this provision have the flexibility to instead 
extend their projections at least to the end point of their NDC under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement (para. 95 of the 
MPG s). 
Custom footnotes:  
Documentation box:  
  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
22  11. Key underlying assumptions and parameters used for projectionsa, b 
Key underlying 
assumptions and 
parametersc Unit, as 
applicable  Most recent year in the Party’s 
national inventory report, or the most 
recent year for which data are 
available   Projections of key underlying assumptions and 
parametersd 
20XX   20X(0)(5)  20X(0)(5)  20X(0)(5)  
{Key underlying 
assumption/parameter}      
     
     
     
     
     
 
 
Note : The Party could add rows fo r each additional key underlying assumptions and parameters.  
a  Each Party shall report projections pursuant to paras. 93 –101 of the MPGs; those developing country Parties that 
need flexibility in the light of their capacities are instead encouraged to rep ort such projections (para. 92 of the 
MPGs).  
b  Those developing country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities with respect to paragraphs 
93–101 of the MPGs can instead report using a less detailed methodology or coverage (para. 10 2 of the MPGs).  
c  Information provided by each Party in describing the methodology used to develop the projections should include 
key underlying assumptions and parameters used for projections (e.g. gross domestic product growth rate/level, 
population gr owth rate/level) (para. 96(a) of the MPGs).  
d  Future years extended to at least 15 years beyond the next year ending in zero or five;  those developing country 
Parties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities with respect to this provision ha ve the flexibility to instead 
extend their projections at least to the end point of their NDC under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement  (para. 95 of the 
MPGs).  
Custom footnotes:  
Documentation box:  
  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 23 
 
12. Information necessary to track progress  on the implementation and achievement of the domestic policies and measures implemented to address the social and economic 
consequences of response measuresa 
Sectors and activities associated with the 
response measuresb Social and economic  consequences of the response 
measuresc Challenges in and barriers to addressing the 
consequencesd Actions to address the consequencese 
    
 
 
a  Each Party with an NDC under Article 4 that consists of adaptation actions and/or economic diversification plans resulting in  mitigation co -benefits consistent with Article 4, para. 7, of the 
Paris Agreement shall provide the information necessary to trac k progress on the implementation and achievement of the domestic policies and measures implemented to address the social and 
economic consequences of response measures (para. 78 of the MPGs).  
b  In accordance with para. 78(a) of the MPGs.  
c  In accordance with para. 78(b) of the MPGs.  
d  In accordance with para. 78(c) of the MPGs.  
e  In accordance with para. 78(d) of the MPGs.  
Custom footnotes:  
Documentation box:  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
24  Appendix  
Reporting format for the description of a Party’s nationally 
determined contribution under Article 4 of the Paris 
Agreement, including updates  
Description of a Party’s nationally determined contribution under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement, 
including updatesa 
 Description  
Target(s) and description, including target type(s), 
as applicableb, c  
Target year(s) or period(s), and whether they are 
single -year or multi -year target(s), as applicable   
Reference point(s), level(s), baseline(s), base 
year(s) or starting point(s), and their respective 
value(s), as applicable   
Time frame(s) and/or periods for implementation, 
as applicable   
Scope and coverage, including, as relevant, sectors, 
categories, activities, sources and sinks, pools and 
gases, as applicable   
Intention to use cooperative approaches that 
involve the use of ITMOs under Article 6 towards 
NDCs under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement, as 
applicable   
Any updates or clarifications of previously reported 
information, as applicabled  
 
 
Note : This table is to be used by Parties on a voluntary basis.  
a  Each Party shall provide a description of its NDC under Article 4, against which progress will be tracked. The 
information provided shall include required information, as applicable, including any updates to information 
previously provided (para. 64 of the MPGs).  
b  For example: economy -wide absolute emission r eduction, emission intensity reduction, emission reduction below 
a projected baseline, mitigation co -benefits of adaptation actions or economic diversification plans, policies and 
measures, and other (para. 64(a) of the MPGs).  
c  Parties with both uncondit ional and conditional targets in their NDC may add a row to the table to describe 
condi tional targets.  
d  For example: recalculation of previously reported inventory data, or greater detail on methodologies or use of 
cooperative approaches (para. 64(g) of the MPGs).  
Custom footnotes:  
Documentation box:  
  
 
 25 
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  Annex III  
[English only]  
Common  tabular formats for the electronic reporting of the information on financial, technology 
development and transfer and capacity -building support provided and mobilize d, as well as support 
needed and received, under Articles 9 –11 of the Paris Agreement  
Table III.1  
Information on financial support provided under Article 9 of the Paris Agreement in year 20XX -3:a, b, c bilateral, regional and other channels  
Exchange rate used: _______  
Recipient 
country or 
regionc, d  Title of the 
project 
programme
, activity or 
otherc, e  Amount (climate -specific)c, f  Statusc Channelc Funding 
sourcec Financial 
instrumentc, g Type of 
supportc Sectorc Subsectorc, h Contribution to 
capacity -building 
objectivesc, h Contribution to 
technology 
development and 
transfer 
objectivesc, h Additional 
informationc, h, i 
Face value   Grant equivalent  
       
    Domestic 
currency  USD   Domestic 
currency  USD  
Country  
Regionj 
Global          Disbursed  
Committed  Bilateral  
Regional  
Multi -bilateral  
Other 
(specify)e ODA  
OOF  
Other 
(specify)e Grant  
Concessional 
loan 
Non-
concessional loan  
Equity  
Guarantee  
Insurance  
Other (specify)e Adaptation  
Mitigation  
Cross -
cuttingk Energy  
Transport  
Industry  
Agriculture  
Forestry  
Water and 
sanitation  
Cross -cutting  
Other (specify)e  Insert 1 for Yes,  
0 for No  Insert 1 for Yes,  
0 for No   
        
 a 
 
Abbreviations : ODA = official development assistance, OOF = other official flows.  
Notation keys : NA = not applicable; UA = information not available at the time of reporting; NR = not reported (to indicate the voluntary character of the information).  
Note: Where financial support contributes to capacity -building and/or technology development and transfer objectives, information in shaded cells is automatically populated in the  relevant 
CTF table on information on support for technology development and transfer provided under Article 10 of the Paris Agreement ( table III.4) and/or information on capacity -building support 
provided under Article 11 of the Paris Agreement ( table III.5).  
a  Relevant information, in tabular format, on bilateral and regional financial support provided for the previous two reporting years without overlapping with the previous reporting periods.  
b  Parties report in a separate table for each year, namely 20XX -3 and 20XX -2, where 20XX is the reporting year.  
c  Parties  provide the underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies, as applicable, used to identify and/or report this reporti ng parameter in the respective section of the BTR.  
  
 
26  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2   
 
d  To the extent possible.  
e  If “other”, Parties should specify this informa tion.  
f  The face value and, on a voluntary basis, the grant -equivalent value.  
g  Parties  report, to the extent possible, the different amounts per financial instrument, if applicable and as available.  
h  As available.   
i  Report, to the extent possible, information on the project/programme and implementing agency and provide a link to any relevant documentation and as appropriate, support to activities 
related to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change.  
j  The region should be reported if data at the country level are not ava ilable.  
k  This refers to funding for activities that have both mitigation and adaptation components. Parties report, to the extent poss ible, the different amounts of components, if applicable and as 
available.  
… 
Custom footnotes  
The underlying assumptions , definitions and methodologies of the information in this CTF is available at link/page number of the BTR .   
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 27 
 
Table III.2  
Information on financial support provided under Article 9 of the Paris Agreement in year 2 0XX-3:a, b, c multilateral channels  
Exchange rate used: ________  
 
Abbreviations : ODA = official development assistance, OOF = other official flows.  
Notation keys : NA = not applicable; UA = information not available at the time of reporting ; NR = not reported (to indicate the voluntary character of the information) . 
Note : Where financial support contributes to capacity -building and/or technology development and transfer objec tives, information in shaded cells is automatically populated in relevant CTF on information on support 
for technology development and transfer provided under Article 10 of the Paris Agreement ( table III.4) and/or information on capacity -building support provided under Article 11 of the Paris Agreement ( table III.5). 
a  Relevant information, in a tabular format, for the previous two reporting years without overlapping with the previous reporti ng periods, on financial support provi ded through multilateral channels.  
b  Parties fill in a separate table for each year, namely 20XX -3 and 20XX -2, where 20XX is the reporting year . 
c  Parties  provide the underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies, as applicable, used to identify and/or report this reporti ng parameter in the respective section of the BTR.  
d  The face value and, on a voluntary basis, the grant -equivalent value.  
e  As applicable.  
f  This refers to support to multilateral institutions that Parties cannot specify as being climate -specific.  
g  As available.  
h  If “other ”, Parties should  specify  this information .  
i  Parties r eport, to the extent possible, the different amounts per financial instrument , if applicable  and as available . 
j  Region should be reported when data at country level are not available.  
k  This refers to funding for activities that have both  mitigation and  adaptation  components. Parties r eport, to the extent possible, the different amounts of components, if applicable  and as available . 
 
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
28  
 l  Report, to the extent possible , information on the project/programme  and implementing agency and  provide a link to any relevant  documentation  and as appropriate, support to activities related to averting, minimizing 
and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change.  
… 
Custom footnotes  
The underlying assumptions, definitions an d methodologies of the information in this CTF is available at link/page number of the BTR . 
  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 29 
 
Table III.3  
Information on financial support mobilized through public interventions under Article 9 of the Paris Agreement in 20XX -3a, b, c 
Exchange rate used: ________  
Recipientc Title of the 
project, 
programme, 
activity or 
otherc, d Channel  Amount mobilizedc, e  Amount of resources 
used to mobilize the 
supportc 
Type of public 
interventionc, f Type of 
support  Sectorc Subsectorc Additional 
informationc, i Face value   Grant equivalent   
Domestic 
currency  USD   Domestic 
currency  USD   Domestic 
currency  USD  
Country  
Regiong 
Global   Bilateral  
Regional  
Multilateral          Grant  
Concessional loan  
Non-concessional loan  
Equity  
Guarantee  
Insurance  
Policy intervention  
Capacity -building  
Technology 
development and 
transfer  
Technical assistance  
Other (specify)d Adaptation  
Mitigation  
Cross -
cuttingh Energy  
Transport  
Industry  
Agriculture  
Forestry  
Water and 
sanitation  
Cross -
cutting  
Other 
(specify)d   
Notation keys : NA = not applicable; UA = information not available at the time of reporting ; NR = not reported (to indicate the voluntary character of the information) . 
Note : Where financial support contributes to capacity -building and/or technology development and transfer objectives, information in shaded cells is automatically populated in rel evant CTF 
on information on support for technology development and transfer provided under Article 10 of the Paris Agreement ( table III.4) and/or information on capacity -building support provided 
under Article 11 of the Paris Agreement ( table III.5).  
a   Relevant information, in textual and/or tabular format, for the previous two reporting years without overlapping with the pre vious reporting periods, on financial support mobilized through 
public interventions through bilateral, regional and mu ltilateral channels, including the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism and entities of the Technology Mechanism, as  applicable 
and to the extent possible.  
b   Parties fill in a separate table for each year, namely 20XX -3 and 20XX -2, where 20XX i s the reporting year.  
c   Parties provide the underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies, as applicable, used to identify and/or report this  reporting parameter in the respective section of the BTR.  
d   If “other”, Parties should specify this i nformation.  
e  The face value and, on a voluntary basis, the grant -equivalent value, if applicable.  
f    Parties report, to the extent possible, the different amounts per financial instrument, if applicable and as available . 
g    Region should be reported when data at country level are not available.  
h   This refers to funding for activities that have both mitigation and adaptation components. Parties report, to the extent poss ible, the different amounts of components, if applicabl e and as 
available.  
i    Report, to the extent possible, information on the project/programme and implementing agency and provide a link to any releva nt documentation and as appropriate, support to activities 
related to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change.  
… 
Custom footnotes  
The underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies of the information in this CTF is available at link/page number of the BTR.    
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
30  
 
Table III.4  
Information on support for technology development and transfer provided under Article 10 of the Paris Agreementa 
Titleb Recipient entityb Description and 
objectivesb Type of supportb Sectorb Subsectorb Type of 
technologyb Status of 
measure or 
activityb Activity 
undertaken byb Additional 
informatione 
   Mitigation  
Adaptation  
Cross -cuttingd 
 Energy  
Transport  
Industry  
Agriculture  
Forestry  
Water and 
sanitation  
Cross -cutting  
Other (specify)c   Planned  
Ongoing  
Completed  Public sector  
Private sector  
Public and 
private sector   
Notation keys : NA = not applicable; UA = information not available at the time of reporting ; NR = not reported (to indicate the voluntary character of the information) .
a  Quantitative and/or qualitative information in common tabular format on measures or activities related to support for technolo gy development and transfer implemented or planned since 
their previous BTR , to the extent possible and as relevant.  
b  Parties provide the underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies, as applicable, used to identify and/or report this  reporting parameter in th e respective section of the BTR.  
c  If “other”, Parties should specify this information . 
d  This refers to activities that have both mitigation and adaptation components . 
e  Report, to the extent possible, information on the project/programme and implementing agency and provide a link to any relevant documentation and as appropriate, support to act ivities 
related to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change.  
… 
Custom footnotes  
The underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies of the information in this CTF is available at link/page number of the BTR . 
 
   
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 31 
 
Table III.5  
Information on capacity -building support provided under Article 11 of the Paris Agreementa   
Titleb Recipient entityb Description and objectivesb Type of supportb Status of measure or activityb Additional informationd 
   Adaptation  
Mitigation  
Cross -cuttingc Planned  
Ongoing  
Completed   
Notation keys : NA = not applicable; UA = information not available at the time of reporting ; NR = not reported (to indicate the voluntary character of the information) .   
a  Quantitative and/or qualitative information in common tabular format on measures or activities related to capacity -building support implemented  or planned since their previou s report, to 
the extent possible and as relevant.  
b  Parties provide the underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies, as applicable, used to identify and/or report this  reporting parameter in the respective section of the BTR . 
c  This refers to a ctivities that have both mitigation and adaptation components . 
d  Report, to the extent possible, information on the project/programme and implementing agency and provide a link to any releva nt documentation and as appropriate, support to activities 
relate d to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change.  
… 
Custom footnotes  
The underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies of the information in this CTF is available at link/page number of the BTR . 
   
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
32  
 
Table III.6  
Information on financial support needed by developing country Parties under Article 9 of the Paris Agreementa, b 
Exchange rate used: ________  
Secto rc Subsectorc Title of 
activity, 
programme, 
project or 
otherc, d  Programme/  
project 
descriptionc Estimated amount 
(climate -specific)c 
Expected 
time 
framec Expected 
financial 
instrumentc Type of 
supportc Contribution 
to technology 
development 
and transfer 
objectivesc Contribution 
to capacity -
building 
objectivesc Whether the 
activity is 
anchored in 
a national 
strategy 
and/or an 
NDCc Expected 
use, 
impact and 
estimated 
resultsc Additional 
informationf Domestic 
currency  USD  
Energy  
Transport  
Industry  
Agriculture  
Forestry  
Water and 
sanitation  
Cross -
cutting  
Other 
(specify)d       Grant  
Concessional 
loan 
Non-
concessional 
loan 
Equity  
Guarantee  
Insurance  
Other 
(specify)d Adaptation  
Mitigation  
Cross -
cuttinge 
 Insert 1 for 
Yes, 0 for 
No Insert 1 for 
Yes, 0 for 
No Insert 1 for 
Yes, 0 for 
No   
Notation keys : NA = not applicable; UA = information not available at the time of reporting ; NR = not reported (to indicate the voluntary character of the information) . 
a  Developing country Parties should provide, in a common tabular format, information on financial support need ed, to the extent possible, as available and as applicable.  
b  Parties include information on support needed from the reporting year of the BTR . 
c  Parties provide the underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies, as applicable, used to identify a nd/or report this reporting parameter in the respective section of the BTR.  
d  If “other”, Parties should specify this information.  
e  This refers to funding for activities that have both mitigation and adaptation components . 
f  Report, to the extent possible, information on the project/programme and implementing agency and provide a link to any relevant documentation and a s appropriate, support to activities 
related to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse eff ects of climate change.  
… 
Custom footnotes  
The underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies of the information in this CTF is available at link/page number of the BTR . 
  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 33 
 
Table III.7  
Information on financial suppor t received by developing country Parties under Article 9 of the Paris Agreementa, b 
Exchange rate used: ________  
Title of 
activity, 
programme, 
project or 
otherc, d Programme/ 
project 
descriptionc Channelc Recipient 
entityc Implementing 
entityc Amount received 
(climate -
specific)c 
Time 
framec Financial 
instrumentc Statusc Type of 
supportc Sectorc Subsectorc Contribution 
to technology 
development 
and transfer 
objectivesc Contribution 
to capacity -
building 
objectivesc Status of 
activityc Use, 
impact 
and 
resultsc Additional 
informationf Domestic 
currency  USD  
  Multilateral  
Bilateral  
Regional  
Other 
(specify)d      Grant  
Concessional 
loan 
Non-
concessional 
loan 
Equity  
Guarantee  
Insurance  
Other (specify)d Committed  
Received  Adaptation  
Mitigation  
Cross -
cuttinge Energy  
Transport  
Industry  
Agriculture  
Forestry  
Water and 
sanitation  
Cross -cutting  
Other 
(specify)d  Insert 1 for 
Yes,  
0 for No  Insert 1 for 
Yes,  
0 for No  Planned  
Ongoing  
Completed    
Notation keys : NA = not applicable; UA = information not available at the time of reporting ; NR = not reported (to indicate the voluntary character of the information) . 
a   Developing country Parties should provide, in common tabular format, information on financial support received, to the extent  possible, as available and as applicable.  
b   Parties  include information on support received, ongoing or planned since the previ ous BTR .  
c   Parties provide the underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies, as applicable, used to identify and/or report this  reporting parameter in the respective section of the BTR.  
d   If “other ”, Parties should  specify  this information .  
e   This refers to funding for activities that have both  mitigation and adaptation  components .  
f  Report, to the extent possible, information on the project/programme and implementing agency and provide a link to any releva nt documenta tion and as appropriate, support to activities related to averting, minimizing 
and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change.  
… 
Custom footnotes  
The underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies of the information in this CTF is available at link/page number of the BTR.  
 
 
   
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
34  
 
Table III.8  
Information on technology development and transfer support needed by developing country Parties under Article 10 of the Paris  Agreementa, b   
Sectorc Subsectorc Title of activity, 
programme, project or 
otherc, d Programme/project 
descriptionc Type of supportc Type of 
technologyc Expected time 
framec Expected use, impact 
and estimated 
resultsc Additional 
informationf 
Energy  
Transport  
Industry  
Agriculture  
Forestry  
Water and 
sanitation  
Cross -cutting  
Other (specify)d    Mitigation  
Adaptation  
Cross -cuttinge 
     
Notation keys : NA = not applicable; UA = information not available at the time of reporting ; NR = not reported (to indicate the voluntary character of the information) . 
a  Developing country Parties should provide, in a common tabular format, information on technology development and transfer  support needed, to the extent possible, as available a nd as 
applicable.  
b  Parties include information on support needed from the reporting year of the BTR . 
c  Parties provide the underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies, as applicable, used to identify and/or report this  reporting parameter in the respective section of the BTR.  
d  If “other”, Parties should specify this information.  
e  This refers to activities that have both mitigation and adaptation components.  
f  Report, to the extent possible, information on the project/programme and implementing agency and provide a link to any releva nt documentation and as appropriate, support to activities 
related to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change.  
… 
Custom footnotes  
The underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies of the information in this CTF is available at link/page number of the BTR . 
  
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 35 
 
 
Table III.9  
Information on technology development and transfer support received by developing country Parties under Article 10 of the Paris Agreementa, b  
Title of activity, 
programme, 
project or otherc, d Programme/project 
descriptionc Type of 
technologyc Time 
framec Recipient 
entityc Implementing 
entityc Type of 
supportc Sectorc Subsectorc Status of 
activityc Use, impact and 
estimated resultsc Additional 
informationf 
 
     Mitigation  
Adaptation  
Cross -
cuttinge Energy  
Transport  
Industry  
Agriculture  
Forestry  
Water and 
sanitation  
Cross -cutting  
Other (specify)d  Planned  
Ongoing  
Completed  
  
 
 
Notation keys : NA = not applicable; UA = information not available at the time of reporting ; NR = not reported (to indicate the voluntary character  of the information) . 
a  Developing country Parties should provide, in common tabular format, information on technology development and transfer suppo rt received, to the extent possible, as available and as 
applicable.  
b  Parties include information on sup port received, ongoing or planned since the previous BTR . 
c  Parties provide the underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies, as applicable, used to identify and/or report this  reporting parameter in the respective section of the BTR.  
d  If “other”, Parties should specify this information.  
e  This refers to activities that have both mitigation and adaptation components.  
f  Report, to the extent possible, information on the project/programme and implementing agency and provide a link to any relevant documentation and as appropriate, support to activities 
related to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change.  
… 
Custom footnotes  
The underlying assumptions, definitions and methodolog ies of the information in this CTF is available at link/page number of the BTR . 
 
   
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
36  
 
Table III.10  
Information on capacity -building support needed by developing country Parties under Article 11 of the Paris Agreementa, b 
Sectorc, d Subsectorc Title of activity, 
programme, project 
or otherc, d Programme/project 
descriptionc Type of supportc Expected time frameb Expected use, impact and 
estimated resultsb Additional informationf 
Energy  
Transport  
Industry  
Agriculture  
Forestry  
Water and 
sanitation  
Cross -cutting  
Other 
(specify)d    Mitigation  
Adaptation  
Cross -cuttinge    
 
 
Notation  keys: NA = not applicable; UA = information not available at the time of reporting ; NR = not reported (to indicate the voluntary character of the information) . 
a  Developing country Parties should provide, in common tabular format, information on capacity -building support needed, to the extent possible, as available and as applicable.  
b  Parties include information on support needed from the reporting year of the BTR. 
c  Parties provide the underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies, as applicable, used to identify and/or report this  reporting parameter in the respective section of the BTR  
d  If “other”, Parties should specify this information.  
e  This ref ers to activities that have both mitigation and adaptation components.  
f  Report, to the extent possible, information on the project/programme and implementing agency and provide a link to any releva nt documentation and as appropriate, support to activitie s 
related to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change.  
… 
Custom footnotes  
The underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies of the information in this CTF is available at link/page nu mber of the BTR.  
   
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 37 
 
Table III.11  
Information on capacity -building support received by developing country Parties under Article 11 of the Paris Agreementa, b 
Title of activity, 
programme, project 
or otherc, d Programme/project 
descriptionc Time framec Recipient entityc Implementing 
entityc Type of supportc Sectorc Subsectorc Status of 
activityc Use, impact 
and 
estimated 
resultsc Additional 
informationf 
     Mitigation  
Adaptation  
Cross -cuttinge Energy  
Transport  
Industry  
Agriculture  
Forestry  
Water and 
sanitation  
Cross -
cutting  
Other 
(specify)d  Planned  
Ongoing  
Completed    
 
 
Notation keys : NA = not applicable; UA = information not available at the time of reporting ; NR = not reported (to indicate the voluntary character of the information) . 
a  Developing country Parties should provide, in common tabular format, information on capacity -building support received, to the extent possible, as available and as applicable.  
b  Parties include information on support received, ongoing or planned since the previous BTR . 
c  Parties provide the underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies, as applicable, used to identify and/or report this  reporting parameter in the respe ctive section of the BTR.  
d  If “other”, Parties should specify this information.  
e  This refers to activities that have both mitigation and adaptation components  
f  Report, to the extent possible, information on the project/programme and implementing agen cy and provide a link to any relevant documentation and as appropriate, support to activities 
related to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change.  
… 
Custom footnotes  
The underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies of the information in this CTF is available at link/page number of the BTR . 
 
 
   
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
38  
 
Table III.12  
Information on support needed by developing country Parties for the implementation of Article 13 of the Paris Agreement and t ransparency -related activities, 
including for transparency -related capacity -buildinga, b 
Exchange rate used: ________  
Title of activity, 
programme, project or 
otherc, d Objectives and 
descriptionc Expected 
time framec Recipient entityc Channelc Amountc 
Status of activityc Expected use, impact 
and estimated resultsc Additional 
information  Domestic 
currency  USD  
    Multilateral  
Bilateral  
Regional  
Other (specify)d   Planned  
Ongoing  
Completed    
 
 
Notation keys : NA = not applicable; UA = information not available at the time of reporting ; NR = not reported (to indicate the voluntary  character of the information) . 
a  Developing country Parties should provide, in common tabular format, summary information on support needed for implementing A rticle 13 and transparency -related activities, including 
for transparency -related capacity -build ing, to the extent possible and as applicable.  
b  Parties include information on support needed from the reporting year of the BTR . 
c  Parties provide the underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies, as applicable, used to identify and/or report this reporting parameter in the respective section of the BTR.  
d  If “other”, Parties should specify this information.  
… 
Custom footnotes  
The underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies of the information in this CTF is available at link/page number of the BTR.  
 
 
   
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 39 
 
Table III.13  
Information on support received by developing country Parties for the implementation of Article 13 of the Paris Agreement and  transparency -related activities, 
including for transparency -related capacity -buildinga, b 
Exchange rate used: ________  
Title of activity, 
programme, project or 
otherc, d Objectives and 
descriptionc Time 
framec Recipient entityc Channelc Amountc 
Status of activityc Use, impact and 
estimated 
resultsc Additional 
information  Domestic 
currency  USD  
 
   Multilateral  
Bilateral  
Regional  
Other (specify)d   Planned  
Ongoing  
Completed  
  
 
 
Notation keys : NA = not applicable; UA = information not available at the time of reporting ; NR = not reported (to indicate the voluntary character of the information . 
a  Developing country Parties should provide, in common ta bular format, summary information on support received for implementing Article 13 and transparency -related activities, including 
for transparency -related capacity -building, to the extent possible and as applicable.  
b  Parties include information on support  received, ongoing or planned since the previous BTR . 
c  Parties provide the underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies, as applicable, used to identify and/or report this  reporting parameter in the respective section of the BTR  
d  If “other”, P arties should specify this information.  
… 
Custom footnotes  
The underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies of the information in this CTF is available at link/page number of the BTR.  
 
 
 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
40  Annex IV * 
Outline of the biennial transparency report, pursuant to the 
modalities, procedures and guidelines for the transparency 
framework for action and support referred to in Article 13 of 
the Paris Agreement (annex to decision 18/CMA.1)1 
[English only]  
Overview chapter  
I. National inventory report of anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals 
by sinks of greenhouse gases2 (paras. 17 –58 of the MPGs)3 
II. Information necessary to track progress made in implementing and achieving 
nationally determined contributions under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement (paras. 59 –
103 of the MPGs)4 
A. National circumstances and institutional arrangements (paras. 59 –63 of th e 
MPGs)  
B. Description of a Party’s nationally determined contribution under Article 4 of 
the Paris Agreement, including updates (para. 64 of the MPGs)  
C. Information necessary to track progress made in implementing and achieving 
nationally determined cont ributions under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement (paras. 
65–79 of the MPGs)5  
D. Mitigation policies and measures, actions and plans, including those with 
mitigation co -benefits resulting from adaptation actions and economic diversification 
plans, related  to implementing and achieving a nationally determined contribution 
under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement (paras. 80 –90 of the MPGs)  
E. Summary of greenhouse gas emissions and removals (para. 91 of the MPGs)6 
F. Projections of greenhouse gas emissions an d removals, as applicable (paras. 
92–102 of the MPGs)7 
G. Other information (para. 103 of the MPGs)  
III. Information related to climate change impacts and adaptation under Article 7 of  
the Paris Agreement8 
A. National circumstances, institutional arrangements and legal frameworks 
(para. 106 of the MPGs)  
 
 * The list of the acronyms and abbreviations  used in this annex can be found at the end of the document.  
 1 Use of the outline by Parties is as per para. 2 of decision 5/CMA.3.  
 2 Including common reporting tables and the national inventory document, pursuant to the annex to 
decision 18/CMA.1.  
 3 The applicable flexibility provisions for those developing country Parties that need them in the light 
of their capacities are set out in paras. 25, 29, 32, 34, 35, 48, 57 and 58 o f the MPGs.  
 4 The applicable flexibility provisions for those developing country Parties that need them in the light 
of their capacities are set out in paras. 85, 92, 95 and 102 of the MPGs.  
 5 Pursuant to para. 77(d) of the annex to decision 18/CMA.1, s uch information is subject to relevant 
decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement on Article 6 of the Paris Agreement.  
 6 This only applies to Parties that submit a stand -alone national i nventory report.  
 7 Those developing countries that need flexibility in the light of their capacities are encouraged to 
report these projections.  
 8 Information relevant to this chapter is outlined in paras. 13 –14 of the MPGs , as applicable.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 41 B. Impacts, risks and vulnerabilities, as appropriate (para. 107 of the MPGs)  
C. Adaptation priorities and barriers (para. 108 of the MPGs)  
D. Adaptation strategies, policies, plans, g oals and actions to integrate adaptation 
into national policies and strategies (para. 109 of the MPGs)  
E.  Progress on implementation of adaptation (paras. 110 –111 of the MPGs)  
F. Monitoring and evaluation of adaptation actions and processes (paras. 112 –
114 of the MPGs)  
G. Information related to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage 
associated with climate change impacts (para. 115 of the MPGs)  
H. Cooperation, good practices, experience and lessons learned (para. 116 of the 
MPGs)  
I. Any other information related to climate change impacts and adaptation under 
Article 7 of the Paris Agreement (para. 117 of the MPGs)9 
IV. Information on financial, technology development and transfer and capacity -
building support provided and mobilized under Artic les 9 –11 of the Paris Agreement  
A. National circumstances and institutional arrangements (paras. 119 –120 of the 
MPGs)  
B. Underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies (paras. 121 –122 of the 
MPGs)  
C. Information on financial support provided and mob ilized under Article 9 of the 
Paris Agreement (paras. 123 –125 of the MPGs)  
D. Information on support for technology development and transfer provided 
under Article 10 of the Paris Agreement (paras. 126 –127 of the MPGs)  
E. Information on capacity -building s upport provided under Article 11 of the 
Paris Agreement (paras. 128 –129 of the MPGs)  
V. Information on financial, technology development and transfer and capacity -
building support needed and received under Articles 9 –11 of the Paris Agreement  
A. National circumstances, institutional arrangements and country -driven 
strategies (para. 130 of the MPGs)  
B. Underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies (para. 131 of the 
MPGs)  
C. Information on financial support needed by developing country Parties under 
Article 9 of the Paris Agreement (paras. 132 –133 of the MPGs)  
D. Information on financial support received by developing country Parties under 
Article 9 of the Paris Agreement (para. 134 of the MPGs)  
E. Information on technology development and transfer su pport needed by 
developing country Parties under Article 10 of the Paris Agreement (paras. 135 –136 
of the MPGs)  
F. Information on technology development and transfer support received by 
developing country Parties under Article 10 of the Paris Agreement (pa ras. 137 –138 
of the MPGs)  
G. Information on capacity -building support needed by developing country 
Parties under Article 11 of the Paris Agreement (paras. 139 –140 of the MPGs)  
 
 9 This info rmation can also include clarification on the linkages between information related to climate 
change impacts and adaptation under Article 7 of the Paris Agreement reported in the biennial 
transparency report and that reported in the (optional) adaptation c ommunication, if submitted.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
42  H. Information on capacity -building support received by developing country 
Parties under Article 11 of the Paris Agreement (paras. 141 –142 of the MPGs)  
I. Information on support needed and received by developing country Parties for 
the implementation of Article 13 of the Paris Agreement and transparency -related 
activities , including for transparency -related capacity -building (paras. 143 –145 of the 
MPGs)10 
VI. Information to be reported when national communications and biennial 
transparency reports are submitted jointly every four years11 
A. Vulnerability assessment, climat e change impacts and adaptation measures12  
B. Research and systematic observation  
C. Education, training and public awareness  
VII. Information  on flexibility13  
Indication of (1) reporting provisions to which self -determined flexibility is 
applied, (2) capacity constraints in relation to the application of flexibility and (3) self -
determined estimated time frames for improvements in relation to those capacity 
constraints (para. 6 of the MPGs)14 
VIII.  Improvements in reporting over time15 
A. Areas of improvement identified by the Party and technical expert review team 
in relation to Party’s implementation of Article 13 of the Paris Agreement (para. 7(a) 
of the MPGs)  
B. How the Party is addressing or intends to address areas of improvement as 
referred to in paragraph 7(a) of the MPGs (para. 7(b) of the MPGs)  
C. Areas of improvement that are related to the flexibility provisions used16 (para. 
7(c) of the MPGs)  
D. Reporting -related capacity -building support needs identified, including those 
referr ed to in chapter VI above and any progress made, including those previously 
identified as part of the technical expert review in chapter VII of the MPGs (para. 7(d) 
of the MPGs)  
E. Parties’ domestic plans and priorities with regard to improved reporting 
pursuant to paragraph 7 of the MPGs are not subject to technical expert review, but 
the information may inform discussions on areas of improvement and identification 
of capacity -building needs between the technical expert review team and the Party 
concerned (para. 8 of the MPGs)  
 
 10  Parties may wish to report information on support needed for implementing the enhanced 
transparency framework and for capacity -building in a separate chapter of the biennial transparency 
report as per para. 2 of decision 5/CMA.3.    
 11 As per decision 1/CP.24, para. 43.  
 12 This chapter is not necessary if relevant information is reported in section IV of the biennial 
transparency report.  
 13 Applicable only to developing country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities.  
 14 Developing country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their national capacities may elect to 
report information on the specific flexibility provisions applied in the overview chapter of the biennial 
transparency rep ort and/or integrate this information into the chapters relevant to where specific 
flexibility provisions have been applied. Parties may also elect to include on a voluntary basis a 
summary table on the specific flexibility provisions applied.  
 15 All Parti es may report information on areas of improvement in relation to their reporting, pursuant to 
chaps. III –VI of the MPGs, in this chapter and/or in chapters relevant to where specific areas of 
improvement have been identified.  
 16 Those developing country Pa rties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities are encouraged to 
highlight the areas of improvement that are related to their flexibility provisions.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 43 IX. Any other information the Party considers relevant to the achievement of the 
objective of the Paris Agreement, and suitable for inclusion in its biennial transparency 
report  
Annexes as outlined in the annex to decision 18/CMA.1  
Annex I: Technical annexes for REDD+,17 as applicable  
Annex II: Common reporting tables for the electronic reporting of the national 
inventory report of anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks of 
greenhouse gases  
Annex III: Common tabular formats for the electronic reporting of:  
• Information necessary to track progress in implementing and achieving 
nationally determined contributions under A rticle 4 of the Paris Agreement  
• Information on financial, technology development and  transfer and capacity -
building support provided and  mobilized under Articles 9 –11 of the Paris 
Agreement  
• Information on financial, technology development and transfer and capacity -
building support needed and received under Articles 9 –11 of the Paris 
Agree ment  
Annex IV: Information in relation to the Party ’s participation in cooperative 
approaches,  as applicable18  
 
 17 Reducing emissions from deforestation; reducing emissions from forest degradation; conser vation of 
forest carbon stocks; sustainable management of forests; and enhancement of forest carbon stocks 
(decision 1/CP.16, para. 70).  
 18 Guided  by the outcome of decision 2/CMA.3.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
44  Annex V * 
Outline of the national inventory document, pursuant to the 
modalities, procedures and guidelines for the transparency 
framework for action and support referred to in Article 13 of 
the Paris Agreement1 
[English only]  
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  
ES.1. Bac kground information on GHG inventories and climate change (e.g. as it pertains to 
the national context)  
ES.2. Summary of trends related to national emissions and removals  
ES.3. Overview of source and sink category emission estimates and trends  
ES.4. Othe r information (e.g. indirect GHGs , precursor gases)  
ES.5. Key category analysis (flexibility provided to those developing country Parties that 
need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 25 of the MPGs)  
ES.6. Improvements introduced (related to a non -mandatory provision as per para. 7 of the 
MPGs, with flexibility provided to those developing country Parties that need it in the light 
of their capacities as per para. 7(c) of the MPGs)  
Chapter 1: National circumstances, institutional ar rangements and cross -cutting 
information  
1.1. Background information on GHG inventories and climate change (e.g. as it pertains to 
the national context, to provide information to the general public)  
1.2. A description of national circumstances and institutional arrangements  
1.2.1. National entity or national focal point  
1.2.2. Inventory preparation process  
1.2.3. Archiving of information  
1.2.4. Processes for official consideration and approval of inventory  
1.3. Brief general description of methodol ogies (including tiers used) and data sources used  
1.4. Brief description of key categories (flexibility provided to those developing country 
Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 25  of the MPGs ) 
1.5. Brief general description  of QA/QC plan and implementation (related to non -mandatory 
provisions as per para. 35 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided to those developing country 
Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per paras. 34 –35 of the MPGs)  
1.6. General un certainty assessment, including data pertaining to the overall uncertainty of 
inventory totals (flexibility provided to those developing country Parties that need it in the 
light of their capacities as per para. 29 of the MPGs)  
 
 * The list of the acronyms and abbreviations  used in this annex can be found at the end of the document.  
 1 Use of the outline by Parties is as per para. 2 of decision 5/CMA.3.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 45 1.7. General assessment of c ompleteness (related to a non -mandatory provision as per para. 
30 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided to those developing country Parties that need it in 
the light of their capacities as per para. 32 of the MPGs)  
1.7.1. Information on completeness (incl uding information on non -reported categories 
or any methodological or data gaps in the inventory) (related to a non -mandatory provision 
as per para. 30 of the MPGs)  
1.7.2. Description of insignificant categories, if applicable (related to a non -
mandatory p rovision as per para. 32 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided to those 
developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 32 of the 
MPGs)  
1.7.3. Total aggregate emissions considered insignificant, if applicable (relate d to a 
non-mandatory provision as per para. 32 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided to those 
developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 32 of the 
MPGs)  
1.8. Metrics ( related to a non-mandatory provision  as per para. 37 of the MPGs)  
1.9. Summary of any flexibility applied (i.e. by developing country Parties that need it in the 
light of their capacities  as per paras. 4 –6 of the MPGs)2 
Chapter 2: Trends in greenhouse gas emissions and removals  
2.1. Description of emission and removal trends for aggregated GHG emissions and removals  
2.2. Description of emission and removal trends by sector and by gas  
Chapter 3: Energy (CRT sector 1)3 
3.1. Overview of the sector (e.g. quantitative overview and descrip tion, including trends and 
methodological tiers by category) and background information  
3.2. Fuel combustion (CRT 1.A), including detailed information on:  
3.2.1. Comparison of the sectoral approach with the reference approach (related to a 
non-mandatory pr ovision as per para. 36 of the MPGs)  
3.2.2. International bunker fuels (related to a non -mandatory provision as per para. 53 
of the MPGs)  
3.2.3. Feedstocks and non -energy use of fuels (related to a non -mandatory provision 
as per para. 54 of the MPGs)  
3.2.4 . Category (CRT category number)  
3.2.4.1. Category description (e.g. characteristics of sources)  
3.2.4.2. Methodological issues (e.g. choice of methods/activity data/emission 
factors and activity data and emission factors used, assumptions, parameters 
and conventions underlying the emission estimates and the rationale for their 
 
 2 Developing country Parties that need flexibility in the light of their national capacities may elect 
either to report th e information on specific flexibility provisions applied in a separate chapter and/or 
to integrate this information into sectoral chapters relevant to where specific flexibility provisions 
have been applied. Parties may also elect to include on a voluntary  basis a summary table on the 
specific flexibility provisions applied.  
 3 Parties may elect to use the disaggregated outline presented below or the generic, less detailed sector 
outline presented for other sectors.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
46  selection, information on carbon dioxide capture, any specific methodological 
issues (e.g. description of national methods and models))  
3.2.4.3. Description of any flexibility appl ied (i.e. by those developing country 
Parties that need flexibility in the light of their capacities as per paras. 4 –6 of 
the MPGs)4 
3.2.4.4. Uncertainty assessment and time -series consistency (flexibility 
provided to those developing country Parties that  need it in the light of their 
capacities as per para. 29 of the MPGs)  
3.2.4.5. Category -specific QA/QC and verification, if applicable (related to 
non-mandatory provisions as per para. 35 of the MPGs, with flexibility 
provided to those developing country Parties that need it in the light of their 
capacities as per paras. 34 –35 of the MPGs)  
3.2.4.6. Category -specific recalculations, if applicable, including explanatory 
information and justifications for recalculations, changes made in response to 
the review  process and impacts on emission trends  
3.2.4.7. Category -specific planned improvements, if applicable (e.g. 
methodologies, activity data, emission factors), including tracking of those 
identified in the review process (related to a non-mandatory provision as per 
para. 7 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided to those developing country 
Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 7(c) of the MPGs)  
3.3. Fugitive emissions from solid fuels and oil and natural gas and other emissions from 
energy production (CRT 1.B)  
3.4. Category (CRT category number)  
3.4.1. Category description (e.g. characteristics of sources)  
3.4.2 . Methodological issues (e.g. choice of methods/activity data/emission factors 
and activity data an d emission factors used, assumptions, parameters and conventions 
underlying the emission estimates and the rationale for their selection, any specific 
methodological issues (e.g. description of national methods and models))  
3.4.3 . Description of any flexi bility applied (i.e. by those developing country Parties 
that need flexibility in the light of their capacities as per paras. 4 –6 of the MPGs) 5 
3.4.4 . Uncertainty assessment and time -series consistency (flexibility provided to 
those developing country Par ties that need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 29 of 
the MPGs)  
3.4.5 . Category -specific QA/QC and verification, if applicable (related to non -
mandatory provisions as per para. 35 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided to those 
developing c ountry Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per paras. 34 –35 of 
the MPGs)  
3.4.6. Category -specific recalculations, if applicable, including explanatory 
information and justifications for recalculations, changes made in response to the review 
process and impacts on emission trends  
3.4.7 . Category -specific planned improvements, if appl icable (e.g. methodologies, 
 
 4  As footnote 2 above.  
 5  As footnote 2 above.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 47 activity data, emission factors), including tracking of those identified in the review process 
(related to a non -mandatory provision as per para. 7 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided 
to those developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 7(c) 
of the MPGs)  
3.5. Carbon dioxide transport and storage (CRT 1.C)  
3.6. Category (CRT category number)  
3.6.1. Category description (e.g. characteristics of sources)  
3.6.2. Methodological issues (e.g. choice of methods/activity data/emission factors 
and activity data and emission factors used, assumptions, parameters and conventions 
underlying the emission estimates and the rationale for their selection, any specific 
method ological issues (e.g. description of national methods and models))  
3.6.3. Description of any flexibility applied (i.e. by those developing country Parties 
that need flexibility in the light of their capacities as per paras. 4 –6 of the MPGs) 6 
3.6.4. Uncer tainty assessment and time -series consistency (flexibility provided to 
those developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 29 of 
the MPGs)  
3.6.5. Category -specific QA/QC and verification, if applicable (related to no n-
mandatory provisions as per para. 35 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided to those 
developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per paras. 34 –35 of 
the MPGs)  
3.6.6. Category -specific recalculations, if applicable, includi ng explanatory 
information and justifications for recalculations, changes made in response to the review 
process and impacts on emission trends  
3.6.7. Category -specific planned improvements, if applicable (e.g. methodologies, 
activity data, emission facto rs), including tracking of those identified in the review process 
(related to a non -mandatory provision as per para. 7 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided 
to those developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 7(c ) 
of the MPGs)  
Chapter 4: Industrial processes and product use (CRT sector 2)  
4.1. Overview of the sector (e.g. quantitative overview and description, including trends 
and methodological tiers by category) and background information  
4.2. Category (CRT cate gory number)  
4.2.1. Category description (e.g. characteristics of sources)  
4.2.2. Methodological issues (e.g. choice of methods/activity data/emission factors 
and activity data and emission factors used, assumptions, parameters and conventions 
underlying the emission estimates and the rationale for their selection, information on carbon 
dioxide capture, any specific methodological issues (e.g. description of national methods and 
models))  
4.2.3. Description of any flexibility applied (i.e. by developing co untry Parties that 
need flexibility in the light of their capacities as per paras. 4 –6 of the MPGs)7 
4.2.4. Uncertainty assessment and time -series consistency (flexibility provided to 
those developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 29 of 
 
 6  As footnote 2 above.  
 7 As footnote 2 above.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
48  the MPGs)  
4.2.5. Category -specific QA/QC and verification, if applicable (related to non -
mandatory provisions as per para. 35 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided to those 
developing country Parties that need it in the  light of their capacities as per paras. 34 –35 of 
the MPGs)  
4.2.6. Category -specific recalculations, if applicable, including explanatory 
information and justifications for recalculations, changes made in response to the review 
process and impacts on emiss ion trends  
4.2.7. Category -specific planned improvements, if applicable (e.g. methodologies, 
activity data, emission factors), including tracking of those identified in the review process 
(related to a non -mandatory provision as per para. 7 of the MPGs, w ith flexibility provided 
to those developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 7(c) 
of the MPGs)  
Chapter 5: Agriculture (CRT sector 3)  
5.1. Overview of the sector (e.g. quantitative overview and description, includi ng trends and 
methodological tiers by category) and background information  
5.2. Category (CRT category number)  
5.2.1. Category description (e.g. characteristics of sources)  
5.2.2. Methodological issues (e.g. choice of methods/activity data/emission facto rs 
and activity data and emission factors used, assumptions, parameters and conventions 
underlying the emission and removal estimates and the rationale for their selection, any 
specific methodological issues (e.g. description of national methods and models ))  
5.2.3. Description of any flexibility applied (i.e. by those developing country Parties 
that need flexibility in the light of their capacities as per paras. 4 –6 of the MPGs)8 
5.2.4. Uncertainty assessment and time -series consistency (flexibility provi ded to 
those developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 29 of 
the MPGs)  
5.2.5. Category -specific QA/QC and verification, if applicable (related to a non -
mandatory provision as per para. 35 of the MPGs, with flexib ility provided to those 
developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per paras. 34 –35 of 
the MPGs)  
5.2.6. Category -specific recalculations, if applicable, including explanatory 
information and justifications for recalculation s, changes made in response to the review 
process and impacts on emission trends  
5.2.7. Category -specific planned improvements, if applicable (e.g. methodologies, 
activity data, emission factors), including tracking of those identified in the review proce ss 
(related to a non -mandatory provision as per para. 7 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided 
to those developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 7(c) 
of the MPGs)  
Chapter 6: Land use, land -use change and forestry (CRT sector 4)  
6.1. Overview of the sector (e.g. quantitative overview and description, including trends and 
methodological tiers by category, and coverage of pools) and background information  
 
 8  As footnote 2 above.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 49 6.2. Land -use definitions and the land representation  approach(es) used and their 
correspondence to the land use, land -use change and forestry categories (e.g. land use and 
land-use change matrix)  
6.3. Country -specific approaches  
6.3.1. Information on approaches used for representing land areas and on land -use 
databases used for the inventory preparation  
6.3.2. Information on approaches used for natural disturbances, if applicable  
6.3.3. Information on approaches used for reporting harvested wood products    
6.4. Category (CRT category number)  
6.4.1. Descr iption (e.g. characteristics of category)  
6.4.2. Methodological issues (e.g. choice of methods/activity data/emission factors 
and activity data and emission factors used, assumptions, parameters and conventions 
underlying the emission and removal estimate s and the rationale for their selection, any 
specific methodological issues (e.g. description of national methods and models))  
6.4.3. Uncertainty assessment and time -series consistency (flexibility provided to 
those developing country Parties that need it  in the light of their capacities as per para. 29 of 
the MPGs)  
6.4.4. Description of any flexibility applied (i.e. by developing country Parties that 
need flexibility in the light of their capacities as per paras. 4 –6 of the MPGs)9 
6.4.5. Category -specifi c QA/QC and verification, if applicable (related to a non -
mandatory provision as per para. 35 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided to those 
developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per paras. 34 –35 of 
the MPGs)  
6.4.6. C ategory -specific recalculations, if applicable, including explanatory 
information and justifications for recalculations, changes made in response to the review 
process and impacts on emission trends  
6.4.7. Category -specific planned improvements, if applica ble (e.g. methodologies, 
activity data, emission factors), including those in response to the review process (related to 
a non -mandatory provision as per para. 7 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided to those 
developing country Parties that need it in the  light of their capacities as per para. 7(c) of the 
MPGs)  
Chapter 7: Waste (CRT sector 5)  
7.1. Overview of the sector (e.g. quantitative overview and description, including trends and 
methodological tiers by category) and background information  
7.2. Category (CRT category number)  
7.2.1. Category description (e.g. characteristics of sources)  
7.2.2. Methodological issues (e.g. choice of methods/activity data/emission factors 
and activity data and emission factors used, assumptions, parameters and conventions 
underlying the emission estimates and the rationale for their selection, any specific 
methodological issues (e.g. description of national methods and models))  
7.2.3. Uncertainty assessment and time -series consistency (flexibility provided to 
 
 9 As footnote 2 above.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
50  those developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 29 of 
the MPGs)  
7.2.4. Description of any flexibility applied (i.e. by developing country Parties that 
need flexibility in the light of their capacities as per paras. 4 –6 of the MPGs)10 
7.2.5. Category -specific QA/QC and verification, if applicable (related to a no n-
mandatory provision as per para. 35 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided to those developing 
country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per paras. 34 –35 of the MPGs)  
7.2.6. Category -specific recalculations, if applicable, includin g explanatory 
information and justifications for recalculations, changes made in response to the review 
process  
7.2.7. Category -specific planned improvements, if applicable (e.g. methodologies, 
activity data, emission factors), including those in response  to the review process (related to 
a non -mandatory provision as per para. 7 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided to those 
developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 7(c) of the 
MPGs)  
Chapter 8: Other (CRT sector  6) (if applicable)  
Chapter 9: Indirect carbon dioxide and nitrous oxide emissions (related to non -
mandatory provisions as per para. 52 of the MPGs)  
9.1. Description of sources of indirect emissions in the GHG inventory  
9.2. Methodological issues (e.g. c hoice of methods/activity data/emission factors and activity 
data and emission factors used, assumptions, parameters and conventions underlying the 
emission estimates and the rationale for their selection, any specific methodological issues 
(e.g. descripti on of national methods and models))  
9.3. Uncertainty assessment and time -series consistency (flexibility provided to those 
developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 29 of the 
MPGs ) 
9.4. Category -specific QA/QC a nd verification, if applicable (related to a non -mandatory 
provision as per para. 35 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided to those developing country 
Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per paras. 34 –35 of the MPGs)  
9.5. Category -specific recalculations, if applicable, including explanatory information and 
justifications for recalculations, changes made in response to the review process and impacts 
on emission trends  
9.6. Category -specific planned improvements, if applicable (e.g. me thodologies, activity 
data, emission factors), including tracking of those identified in the review process (related 
to a non -mandatory provision as per para. 7 of the MPGs, with flexibility provided to those 
developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 7(c) of the 
MPGs)  
Chapter 10: Recalculations and improvements  
10.1. Explanations and justifications for recalculations, including in response to the review 
process  
 
 10 As footnote 2 above.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 51 10.2. Implications for emission and removal levels  
10.3. Implications for emission and removal trends, including time -series consistency  
10.4. Areas of  improvement and/or capacity -building in response to the review process 
(related to non -mandatory provisions as per para. 7(a) and (d) of the MPGs)  
10.5. Areas of improvement and/or capacity -building related to the flexibility provisions 
applied with self -determined estimated time frames for improvements (related to non -
mandatory provisions as per para. 7(c –d) of the MPGs)  
Annexes to the national inventory document  
Annex I: Key categories (flexibility provided to those developing country Parties that need it 
in the light of their capacities as per para. 25 of the MPGs)  
• Description of the approach used for identifying key categories, if different from the 
IPCC tier 1 approach  
• Information on the level of disaggregation  
• Tables 4.2 –4.3 of volume 1 of the 2006  IPCC Guidelines  for National Greenhouse 
Gas Inventories , including and excluding LULUCF   
Annex II: Uncertainty assessment (flexibility provided to those developing country Parties that 
need it in the light of their capacities as per para. 29 of the MPGs)  
• Description of methodology used for identifying uncertainties  
• Table 3.3 of volume 1 of the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas 
Inventories   
Annex III: Detailed description of the reference approach (including inputs to the reference 
approach such as the national energy balance) and the results of the comparison of national 
estimates of emissions with those obtained using the reference approach (related to a non -
mandatory provision as per para. 36 of the MPGs)  
Annex IV: QA/QC plan (related to a  non-mandatory provision as per para. 35 of the MPGs, 
with flexibility provided to those developing country Parties that need it in the light of their 
capacities as per paras. 34 –35 of the MPGs)  
Annex V: Any additional information, as applicable, including  detailed methodological 
descriptions of source or sink categories and the national emission balance  
Annex VI: Common reporting tables  
References  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
52  Annex VI * 
Outline of the technical expert review report, pursuant to the 
modalities, procedures and guidelines for the transparency 
framework for action and support referred to in Article 13 of 
the Paris Agreement  
[English only]  
Abbreviations and acronyms  
I. Introduction and summary  
A. Introduction  
B. Scope  
C. Summary  
D. Information provided by the Party in regard to decision 18/CMA.1 , annex, 
paragraphs 143 –145 
II. Technical review of the information reported (para. 187 of the MPGs)  
A. A review  of the consistency of the information submitted by the Party under 
Article 13, paragraphs 7 and 9, of the Paris Agreement with the MPGs, taking into 
account the flexibility accorded to the Party unde r Article 13, paragraph 2, of the Paris 
Agreement (para. 146(a) of the MPGs)  
1. National inventory of anthropogenic emissions by sources and 
removals by sinks of greenhouse gases (para. 150(a) of the MPGs)  
2. Information necessary to track progress made in  implementing and 
achieving nationally determined contributions under Article 4 of the Paris 
Agreement (para. 150(b) of the MPGs)  
3. Information on financial, technology development and transfer and 
capacity -building support provided under Articles 9 –11 of  the Paris Agreement 
(para. 150(c) of the MPGs )1 
B. Consideration of the Party’s implementation and achievement of its nationally 
determined contribution under Article 4 of the Paris Agreement (para. 146(b) of the 
MPGs)  
C. Consideration of the Party’s sup port provided, as relevant (para. 146(c) of the 
MPGs)  
D. Identification of areas of improvement for the Party related to implementation 
of Article 13 of the Paris Agreement (para. 146(d) of the MPGs)  
E. For those developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities, 
assistance in identifying capacity -building needs (para. 146(e) of the MPGs)  
F. Possible linkages with information relating to Article 6 of the Paris Agreement2  
III. Conclusions and recommendations3  
Annex  
Documents and information used during the review 
 
 * The list of the acronyms and abbreviations  used in this annex can be found at the end of the document.  
 1 Information submitted by other Parties that provide s upport, as referred to in Article 9, para. 2, of the 
Paris Agreement, may undergo a technical expert review at the Party’s discretion.  
 2 Guided  by the outcome of decision 2/CMA.3.  
 3 The chapter of  conclusions and recommendations could include information  on recommendations 
identified by the technical expert review teams in the previous reviews that the Party has not 
addressed.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 53 Annex VII * 
Training programme for technical experts participatin g in the technical 
expert review of biennial transparency reports  
[English only]  
A. General   
1. The aim of the courses forming part of the training programme is to train technical 
experts participating  in the technical expert review under the enhanced transparency 
framework under the Paris Agreement.  
2. The courses incorporate the corresponding provisions in the MPGs relating to 
flexibility.  
B. Availability  
3. The training programme will be available to experts included on the UNFCCC roster 
of experts.  
4. All courses will be available online all year round, with an option to download them.  
C. Examinations  
5. All courses will have an examination.   
6. Examination procedures  will be standardized, objective and transparent.  
7. Examinations will be offered either online or in person. When participants attend an 
in-person training seminar, the examination may take place during that seminar. Other 
arrangements for examinations may  also be made, provided that the examinations take place 
under the supervision of the secretariat.  
8. Experts who have already participated in training programmes and related technical 
reviews under the measurement, reporting and verification arrangements und er the 
Convention do not need to take examinations for courses under the training programme for 
technical experts participating in the technical expert review of BTRs that cover the same 
information as courses taken previously, taking into account their kn owledge and experience.  
D. Instructed courses  
9. Once a year, online training courses facilitated by instructor(s) will be available. In -
person training seminars will also be available. Additional regional training seminars targeted 
at technical experts from dev eloping country Parties, particularly the least developed 
countries and small island developing States, may be organized.  
E. Courses of the training programme  
10. The following courses relating to information specified in paragraph 150 of the MPGs 
will be develo ped: 
(a) General and cross -cutting aspects for the technical expert review under the 
enhanced transparency framework under the Paris Agreement (this course should take into 
account, inter alia, para. 149 of the MPGs ); 
 
 * The list of the acronyms and abbreviations  used in this annex can be found at the end of the document.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
54  (b) Technical review of national inventory rep orts of anthropogenic emissions by 
sources and removals by sinks of greenhouse gases, reported in accordance with chapter II 
of the annex to decision 18/CMA.1:  
(i) General guidance and cross -cutting issues;  
(ii) Courses pertaining to the greenhouse gas inventory se ctors  referred to in the 
MPGs:  
a. Energy;  
b. Industrial processes and product use;  
c. Agriculture;  
d. Land use, land -use change and forestry ;  
e. Waste;  
(c) Technical review of the information necessary to track progress made in 
implementing and achieving nationally determined contributions under Article 4 of the Paris 
Agreement reported in accordance with chapter III of the annex to decision 18/CMA.1 
(including the information necessary to track progress on the implementation and 
achievement of the domesti c policies and measures implemented to address the social and 
economic consequences of response measures for nationally determined contributions that 
consist of adaptation actions and/or economic diversification plans resulting in mitigation co -
benefits , and also including information in relation  to a Party ’s participation in cooperative 
approaches, as applicable) ; 
(d) Technical review of the information on financial, technology development and 
transfer and capacity -building support provided to developing country Parties under Articles 
9–11 of the Paris Agreement reported in accordance with chapter V of the annex to deci sion 
18/CMA.1.FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.2  
 55 Abbreviations and acronyms  
BTR  biennial transparency report  
CH 4 methane  
CMA  Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement  
CO 2 carbon dioxide  
CO 2 eq carbon dioxide equivalent  
CRT  common reporting table  
CTF common tabular format  
GHG  greenhouse gas  
HFC  hydrofluorocarbon  
IPCC  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change  
ITMO  internationally transferred mitigation outcome  
LULUCF  land use, land -use change and forestry  
MPGs  modalities, procedures and guidelines for the transparency framework for 
action and support referred to in Article 13 of the Paris Agreement  
N2O nitrous oxide  
NDC  nationally determined contribution  
NF 3 nitrogen trifluoride  
ODA  official development assi stance  
OOF  other official flows  
PFC perfluorocarbon  
QA/QC  quality assurance/quality control  
REDD+  reducing emissions from deforestation; reducing emissions from forest 
degradation; conservation of forest carbon stocks; sustainable 
management of forests; and enhancement of forest carbon stocks 
(decision 1/CP.16, para. 70)  
SF6 sulfur hexafluoride  
12th plenary meeting  
13 November 2021  
     
  
 
GE.22 -03381(E)  
Conference of the Parties  serving as the meeting  
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
Report of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement on its  
third  session, held in Glasgow from 31 October to  
13 November 2021 
Addendum  
Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its third session  
Contents  
Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
Decision  Page 
6/CMA.3  Common time frames for nationally determined contributions referred to in  
 Article 4, paragraph 10, of the Paris Agreement ........................................................  3 
7/CMA.3  Glasgow –Sharm el -Sheikh work programme on the global goal on adaptation  ........  4 
8/CMA.3  Report of the Adaptation Committee for 2019, 2020 and 2021 .................................   7 
9/CMA.3  New collective quantified goal on climate finance  ....................................................  8 
10/CMA.3  Matters relating to the Standing Committee on Finance  ............................................  11 
11/CMA.3  Guidance to the Green Climate Fund .........................................................................  12 
12/CMA.3  Guidance to the Global Environment Facility  ...........................................................  13 
13/CMA.3  Matters relating to the Adaptation Fund  ....................................................................  15 
14/CMA.3  Compilation and synthesis of, and summary report on the in -session workshop on,  
 biennial communications of information related to Article 9, paragraph 5, of the  
 Paris Agreement  ........................................................................................................  19 
15/CMA.3  Enhancing climate technology development and transfer to support implementation  
 of the Paris Agreement  ..............................................................................................  22 
16/CMA.3  Alignment between processes pertaining to the review of the Climate Technology  
 Centre and Network and the periodic assessment referred to in paragraph 69 of  
 decision 1/CP.21 ........................................................................................................  25 
17/CMA.3  First periodic assessment referred to in paragraph 69 of decision 1/CP.21  ...............  26 United Nations  FCCC /PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
 
 
 
  
Distr.: General 
8 March  2022  
 Original: English  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
2  Decision  Page 
18/CMA.3  Annual technical progress reports of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building  
 for 2020 and 2021  ......................................................................................................  27 
19/CMA.3  Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated with  
 Climate Change Impacts  ............................................................................................  28 
20/CMA.3  Modalities and procedures for the operation and use of a public registry referred to  
 in Article 4, paragraph 12, of the Paris Agreement  ...................................................  32 
21/CMA.3  Modalities and procedures for the operation and use of a public registry referred to  
 in Article 7, paragraph 12, of the Paris Agree ment  ...................................................  33 
22/CMA.3  Glasgow work programme on Action for Climate Empowerment  ............................  34 
23/CMA.3  Matters relating to the forum on the impact of the implementation of  
 response measures  .....................................................................................................  44 
24/CMA.3  Rules of procedure of the committee to facilitate implementation and promote  
 compliance referred to in Article 15, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement  ...............  52 
Resolution  
1/CMA.3  Expression of gratitude to the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain  
 and Northern Ireland and the people of the city of Glasgow  .....................................  61 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
 3 Decision 6/CMA.3 
Common time frames for nationally determined 
contributions referred to in Article 4, paragraph 10, of the 
Paris Agreement  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
 Recalling  Article 4 of the Paris Agreement,  
 Also recalling decision 6/CMA.1, paragraph 2,  
1. Reaffirms  the nationally determined nature of nationally determined contributions;  
2. Encourages  Parties to  communicate in 2025 a nationally determined contribution with 
an end date of 2035, in 2030 a nationally determined contribution with an end date of 2040, 
and so forth every five years thereafter.  
12th plenary meeting  
13 November 2021FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
4  Decision 7/CMA.3  
Glasgow –Sharm el -Sheikh work programme on the global 
goal on adaptation  
 The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
 Recalling the Paris Agreement and the global goal on adaptation referred to in its 
Article 7, paragraph 1,  
 Also recalling Article s 2 and 7  of the Paris Agreement ,  
 Recognizing the importance of the global goal on adaptation for effective 
implementation of the Paris Agreement , 
 Also recognizing that additional work is needed in relation to  the global goal on 
adaptation , 
 Taking note of the methodological , empirical, conceptual and political challenges 
identified in the technical paper of the Adaptation Committee on approaches to reviewing  the 
overall progress made in achieving the global goal on adaptation,1  
 Recognizing that combining various approaches to reviewing overall progress made 
in achieving the global goal on adaptation, including qualitative and quantitative approaches, 
can generate a more holistic picture of adaptation progres s and help to balance the strengths 
and weaknesses of the different approaches,  
 Recalling that adaptation  action should follow a country- driven, gender -responsive, 
participatory and fully transparent approach, taking into consideration vulnerable groups, communities and ecosystems, and should be based on and guided by the best available science and, as appropriate, traditional knowledge, knowledge of indigenous peoples and local knowledge systems with a view to integrating adaptation into relevant socioeconomic and environmental policies and actions, where  appropriate,  
 Acknowledging  that climate change is a common concern of humankind,  Parties 
should, when taking action to address climate change, respect, promote and consider their respective obligations o n human rights, the right to health, the rights of indigenous peoples, 
local communities, migrants, children, persons with disabilities and people in vulnerable situations and the right to development, as well as gender equality, empowerment of women and i ntergenerational equity,  
1. Welcomes  the work of  the Adaptation Committee in considering approaches to 
reviewing the overall progress made in achieving the global goal on adaptation
2 referred to 
in Article 7, paragraph 1, of the Paris Agreement,3 in particular the technical paper and 
webinar4 on the topic, and the engagement of Parties and non -Party stakeholders in the  work ; 
2. Decides to establish and launch a comprehensive two -year Glasgow –Sharm el -Sheikh 
work programme on the global goal on adaptation;  
3. Also decides  that implementation of the work prog ramme will start immediately after 
the third session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement ; 
 
 1 Adaptation Committee. 2021. Approaches to reviewing the overall progress made in achieving the 
global goal on adaptation: Technical paper by the Adaptation Committee . Bonn: UNFCCC. 
Available at https://unfccc.int/process -and-meetings/bodies/constituted -bodies/adaptation -committee-
ac/publications -bulletin -adaptation -committee . 
 2 As per d ecision 1/CMA.2, para. 14.  
 3 See document FCCC/SB/2021/6, paras. 32–35 and 85 –86. 
 4 See https://unfccc.int/event/AC -webinar -GGA .  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
 5 4. Further  decides  that the work programme will be carried out jointly by the Subsidiary 
Body for Scientific and Technological Advice and the Subsidiary Body for Implementation;  
5. Invites  the subsidiary bodies to carry out  the work programme with contributions from  
the current and incoming Presidencies  of the Conference of the Parties , the Adaptation 
Committee , Work ing Group II of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, as 
appropriate , and other relevant constituted bodies and experts ;  
6. Requests  the secretariat to support the implementation of the work programme ; 
7. Decides that the objectives of the work programme should be to, inter alia : 
(a) Enable the full and sustained implementation of the Paris Agreement, towards 
achieving the global goal on adaptation, with a view to enhancing adaptation action and 
support;  
(b) Enhance understanding of the global goal on adaptation, including of the 
methodologies, indicators, data and metrics, needs and support needed for assessing  progress 
towards it;  
(c) Contribute to reviewing the overall progress made in achieving the global goal 
on adaptation as part of the global stocktake referred to in Article 7, paragraph 14, and Article  14 of the Paris Agreement with a view to informing the first and subsequent global 
stocktakes ; 
(d) Enhance national  planning and implementation of adaptation actions through 
the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans and through nationally determined contributions and adaptation communications;  
(e) Enable Parties to better communicat e their adaptation priorities, 
implementation and support needs, plans and actions , including through adaptation 
communications and nationally determined contributions;  
(f) Facilitate the establishment of robust, nationally appropriate systems for 
monitoring a nd evaluating adaptation  action s; 
(g) Strengthen implementation  of adaptation action s in vulnerable developing 
countries;  
(h) Enhance understanding of how communication and reporting instruments 
established under the Convention and the Paris Agreement related to adaptation can complement each other in order to avoid duplication of efforts;  
8. Agrees that implementation of the work programme should refle ct the country -driven 
nature of adaptation and avoid creating any additional burden for developing country Parties;  
9. Decides  that activities carried out under the work programme should build on the work 
of the Adaptation Committee related to the global goal on adaptation, draw on a variety of sources of information and inputs, including national adaptation plans and adaptation communications, take into account traditional knowledge, knowledge of indigenous peoples and local knowledge systems, and be  gender -responsive;  
10. Invite s the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change to inform the work 
programme by presenting to the subsidia ry bodies, at their fifty -sixth sessions (June 2022) , 
the findings of the upcoming contribution of Working Group II to its Sixth Assessment Report , once published, that may be relevant to reviewing overall progress made in achieving 
the global goal on adaptation , and engage in the work programme by clarifying 
methodologies and other elements related to the global goal on adaptation;  
11. Agrees  that the work programme should be carried out in an inclusive manner with 
the involvement of Parties, on the basis of e quitable  geographical representation,  as well as 
observers, relevant constituted bodies under the Convention and the  Paris Agreement, 
organizations, experts and practitioners, as appropriate;  
12. Decides  that four workshops should be conducted per year , with the support of the 
secretariat and under the guidance of the Chairs of the subsidiary bodies, under the work FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
6  programme , namely two virtual intersessional workshops and two workshops in conjunction 
with the sessions of the subsidiary bodies, starting at the ir fifty -sixth sessions;  
13. Invites  Parties to submit via the submission portal,5 by 30 April 2022 , views on how 
to achieve the objectives referred to in paragraph 7 above under the work programme;  
14. Also invites the Chairs of the subsidiary bodies  to select themes for the workshops 
referred to in paragraph 12 above  on the basis of the submissions referred to in paragraph 13 
above ;  
15. Requests  the secretariat  to prepare, under the guidance of the Chairs of the subsidiary 
bodies,  a compilation and synthesis of those submissions for consideration at the workshops;  
16. Also requests the secretariat to prepare, under the guidance of the Chairs of the 
subsidiary bodies,  a single annual report on the workshops for consideration at the sessions 
of the subsidiary bodies coinciding with the sessions  of the Conference of the Parties ser ving 
as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement ; 
17. Invites  the subsidiary bodies to report annually to the Conference of the Parties serving 
as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement , taking into account the report referred 
to in paragra ph 16 above,  on progress in implementing the work programme with a view to 
recommending a draft decision thereon for consideration and adoption by the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  at its fifth session 
(November 2023) ; 
18. Encourages  Parties to make available  sufficient resources for the successful and 
timely implementation of the work programme ; 
19. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs  6, 12, 15 and 16 above;  
20. Requests  that the actions of the  secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources . 
12th plenary meeting  
13 November 2021
 
 5 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx .  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
 7 Decision 8/CMA.3  
Report of the Adaptation Committee for 2019, 2020 and 2021  
 The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
1. Welcomes  the work of the Adaptation Committee in 2019, 2020 and 2021 and takes 
note of the Adaptation Committee’s 2019, 2020 and 2021 reports;1 
2. Welcomes  the technical support and guidance provided by the Adaptation Committee 
for enhancing implementation of adapt ation action and support and underlines  the 
importance of balanced , clear and relevant recommendations for all workstream activities in  
its workplans ; 
3. Welcomes the flexible workplan of the Adaptation Committee for 2022 –2024;2 
4. Invites  the Adaptation Committee to improve its efforts to measure the outreach of its 
events and publications by including, in its flexible workplan, the collection of statistics 
disaggregated by gender and region on  its awareness -raising, outreach and informati on-
sharing efforts such as events and publications;  
5. Requests  the Adaptation Committee to resume holding its regular meetings and events 
in person while offering the option of virtual attendance to ensure inclusive participation, including by observers, while acknowledging the challenges posed by online participation;  
6. Also requests  the Adaptation Committee , with the engagement of Working Group II 
of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, as appropriate, to expedite its work,  to 
ensure delivery withi n the mandated timelines , on developing the draft supplementary 
guidance for voluntary use by Parties in communicating adaptation information in accordance with the elements contained in the annex to decision 9/CMA.1
3 and on producing 
the technical paper on methodologies for assessing adaptation needs;4  
7. Encourages  Parties to make available sufficient resources for the successful and 
timely implementation of the flexible  workplan of the Adaptation Committee for 2022 –2024 . 
12th plenary meeting  
13 November 2021
 
 1 FCCC/SB/2019/3, FCCC/SB/2020/2 and FCCC/SB/2021/6.  
 2 FCCC/SB/2021/6, annex.  
 3 See d ecision 9/CMA.1, para. 15.  
 4 See d ecision 11/CMA.1, para. 17.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
8  Decision 9/CMA.3 
New  collective quantified goal on climate finance  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
 Recalling  decision s 1/CP.21, paragraph 53,  and 14/CMA.1,  
1. Decides to initiate  the deliberations on setting a new collective quantified goal and to 
conduct the deliberations in an open, inclusive and transparent manner , ensuring participatory 
representativeness ;  
2. Recognizes  that the deliberations on the new collective quantified goal will be cyclical 
in nature, with the political deliberations providing guidance to the technical work to be 
conducted and the technical work informing the political deliberations;  
3. Decides  to establish an ad hoc work programme f or 2022 –2024 under the Conference 
of the Parties serving as the  meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement (hereinafter 
referred to as the ad hoc work programme) , to be facilitated by co -chairs, one from a 
developed country and one from a developing country, appointed,  in consultation with the 
respective constituen cies, by the President of the Conference of the Parties  serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its third, fourth (November 2022) and fifth (November 2023) sessions, respectively;  
4. Requests the co -chairs of the ad hoc work programme to  maintain regular 
consultations with the constituted bodies, in particular the Standing Committee on Finance, as well as United Nations agencies, climate finance experts, academi a, and private sector and 
civil society actors  with a view to informing the work programme ; 
5. Decides  to conduct four technical expert dialogues per year as part of the ad hoc work 
programme , with one of these dialogues to be held in conjunction with the first regular 
session of the subsidiary bodies for the year and one to be held in conjunction with the session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement, and the two remaining dialogues to be organized in separate regions with a view to facilitating inclusive and balanced geographic al participation ; 
6. Requests the co -chairs of the ad hoc work programme to organiz e the technical expert 
dialogues referred to in paragraph 5 above on the basis of the submissions referred to in 
paragraphs 17–18 below , and to allow sufficient time for the technical expert dialogues to 
make substantive progress;   
7. Also requests the co -chairs of the ad hoc work programme  to initiate preparations for 
organiz ing the technical expert dialogue s referred to in paragraph 5 above  taking into 
consideration the matters referred to in paragraph 16 below;  
8. Further requests  the secretariat, in organizing the technical expert dialogues referred 
to in paragraph 5  above, to ensure the participation of all interested Parties, academia,  civil 
societ y actors , including youth, and private sector  actors , and that all meetings are open to 
observers and webcast;  
9. Requests  the co -chairs of the ad hoc work programme to prepare a n annual  report on 
the work conducted  under  that work programme , including a summ ary and key findings of  
the technical expert dialogues referred to in paragraph 5  above , for consideration by the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement ; 
10. Decides  to convene high- level ministerial dialogues starting in 2022 and ending in 
2024, ensuring effective political engagement and open, meaningful and robust discussion, to be informed by the reports on  the technical expert dialogues referred to in paragraph 5  
above and the submissions referred to in paragraphs 17–18 below, with a view to providing  
guidance on the further direction of  the ad hoc work programme for  the following  year;  
11. Requests  the Presiden t of the Conference of the Parties to prepare a summary of the 
deliberations at the high -level ministerial dialogues  referred to in paragraph 10 above , FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
 9 including recommendations, for consideration by the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at that session;  
12. Decides  to continue its deliberations on setting a new collective quantified goal at its 
fourth, fifth and sixth sessions , taking stock o f the progress made and providing further 
guidance on the ad hoc work programme , taking into consideration the annual reports of the 
co-chairs of the ad hoc work programme referred to in paragraph 9 above, including the key 
findings contained therein, and the summary reports on the high- level ministerial dialogues 
referred to in paragraph 11 above , including the guidance contained therein;  
13. Invites the Presiden t of the Conference of the Parties to ensure the coherence and 
complementarity of the high-level ministerial dialogues;  
14. Requests the secretariat to assist the co -chairs  of the ad hoc work programme  in 
implementing it; 
15. Decides  that the new collec tive quantified goal aims at contributing to accelerating 
the achievement of Article 2 of the Paris Agreement of holding the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2  °C above pre -industrial levels and pursuing efforts to 
limit the tempera ture increase to 1.5  °C above pre -industrial levels, recognizing that this 
would significantly reduce the risks and impacts of climate change ; increasing the ability to 
adapt to the adverse impacts of climate change and foster climate resilience and low greenhouse gas emission development in a manner that does not threaten food production;  
and making finance flows consistent with a pathway towards low greenhouse gas emission and climate -resilient development; 
16. Also d ecides  that the consideration of the new collective quantified goal will be in line 
with decision 14/CMA.1  and take into account the  needs and priorities of developing 
countries and include, inter alia , quantity, quality , scope  and access features, as well as 
sources of funding,  of the goal and transparency arrangements to track progress  towards 
achievement  of the goal, without prejudice to other elements that will also be considered as 
the deliberations evolve and taking into c onsideration the submissions referred to in 
paragrap hs 17–18 below;  
17. Invites  Parties, constituted bodies under the Convention and the Paris Agreement, the 
operating entities of the Financial Mechanism, climate finance institutions, observers  and 
observer or ganizations,  and other stakeholders, particularly from the private sector, to submit  
their views on the objective s referred to in paragraph 1 5 above  and on the elements referred 
to in paragraph 1 6 above  via the submission portal
1 by February and August 2022  
respectively ;  
18. Requests  the secretariat to prepare a technical paper on the submissions referred to in 
paragraph 17 above ; 
19. Agrees that the deliberations shall be informed by and take into consideration, inter 
alia: 
(a) Inputs from Parties ; constituted bodies, including their relevant outputs, in 
particular the biennial assessment and  overview of climate finance flows and the report on 
the determination of the needs of developing country Parties related to implementing the 
Convention and the  Paris Agreement of the Standing Committee on Finance ; international 
organizations and observers , as well as inputs received through relevant processes under the 
Paris Agreement , including on experience gained in  implementing the Convention  and the 
Paris A greement ; 
(b) The best available scientific information, including the findings of the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change;  
(c) Information from other relevant intergovernmental processes and insights from 
the business and research communities and from civil  society;  
(d) Information from Parties, particularly information related to the needs of 
developing countries;  
 
 1 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx . FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
10  (e) Other technical reports prepared by the secretariat and  other  independent 
organi zations  and observers ; 
20. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implicat ions of the activities to be undertaken  
by the secretariat  referred to in paragraphs 14 and 18 above ; 
21. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision  be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources;  
22. Decides to conc lude its deliberations by setting  the new collective quantified goal  in 
2024.  
12th plenary meeting  
13 November 2021FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
 11 Decision 10/CMA.3  
Matters relating to the Standing Committee on Finance  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement ,  
  Recalling  Article 9 of the Paris Agreement , 
  Also recalling  decisions 1/CP.21, paragraphs 53 and 63, 11/CP.25, 14/CMA.1 and 
5/CMA.2 , 
1. Affirms decision 5/CP.26 , which , inter alia, welcome s the reports of the Standing 
Committee on Finance  and endorsed  the findings and recommendations contained therein ; 
2. Invites  Parties,  the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism, international 
financial institutions and other stakeholders in the financial sector to submit via the 
submission portal1 their views r egarding ways to achieve Article 2, paragraph 1(c), of the 
Paris Agreement, including options for approaches and guidelines for implementation, by 30 April 2022 and requests  the Standing Committee on Finance to submit a synthesis  for 
consideration by the C onference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Paris Agreement at its fourth session (November 2022) ;  
3. Also r equests  the Standing Committee on Finance to continue its work on definitions 
of climate finance, taking into account the submissions received from Parties on this matter ,
2 
with a view to providing  input for consideration by the Conference of the Parties serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its fourth session ; 
4. Further requests  the Standing Committee on Finance to report to the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its fourth session on progress in implementing its 2022 workplan;
3 
5. Requests  the Standing Committee on Finance to consider the guidance provided to it 
in other relevant decisions of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement . 
12
th plenary meeting  
13 November 2021
 
 1 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx .  
 2 In response to decision 5/CMA .2, para. 10.  
 3 FCCC/CP/2021/10 –FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/7 , annex II.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
12  Decision 11/CMA.3  
Guidance to the Green Climate Fund  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
1. Recommends  that the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -sixth session transmit to 
the Green Climate Fund the guidance contained in paragraphs 2 –8 below;1 
2. Welcomes  the reports of the Green Climate Fund to the Conference of the Parties at 
its twenty -sixth session,2 including the list of actions taken by the Board of the Green Climate 
Fund (hereinafter referred to as the Board) in response to guidance received from the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement;   
3. Also welco mes the continued efforts of the Green Climate Fund to make a significant 
and ambitious contribution to the global effort to meet the goals set by the international community in relation to combating climate change;  
4. Takes note  of the continued efforts of t he Board to provide financial resources for 
activities relevant to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage in developing country Parties consistent with the existing investment , results framework  and funding 
windows and structures of the Green Climate Fund, including through the Project Preparation Facility and the Readiness and Preparatory Support Programme;  
5. Welcomes  the Updated Strategic Plan for the Green Climate Fund for 2020– 2023 ,
3 
which is aimed at, inter alia, supporting the Board in guiding and enabling Green Climate Fund programming to promote paradigm shift across both high- impact areas of mitigation 
potential and countries’ adaptation and resilience needs, including by support ing a wider 
alignment of financial flows with countries’ climate plans and strategies consistent with a 
pathway towards low -emission and climate -resilient development;  
6. Requests  the Board to continue to enhance support for mitigation proposals, in line 
with the governing instrument and investment framework, that support countries in 
contributing to holding the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2 °C 
above pre -industrial levels and pursuing efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1. 5 °C 
above pre -industrial levels; 
7. Takes note  of the exceptional circumstances of the coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic 
and its significant impact on the implementation of the Board’s updated four -year workplan, 
recognizes  the Board’s efforts during that pe riod and encourages  the Board to continue to 
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of its work ; 
8. Requests  the Board to continue to enhance support for the implementation of 
adaptation projects and programmes, in line with the governing instrument, inform ed by 
national adaptation plans and other voluntary adaptation planning processes, and adaptation communications, including those submitted as components of nationally determined contribution s, as applicable, with a view to contributing to the global goal on adaptation to 
enhance adaptive capacity, strengthen resilience and reduce vulnerability to climate change, 
and in line with the guiding principles and factors for determining terms of financial instruments.
4 
12th plenary meeting  
13 November 2021
 
 1 In accordance with decision 1/CP.21, para. 61.  
 2 FCCC/CP/2020/5 and FCCC/CP/2021/8.  
 3 Contained in Green Climate Fund document GCF/B.27/21, annex II. Available at 
https://www.greenclimate.fun d/document/gcf -b27-21.  
 4 Available at  https://www.greenclimate.fund/document/guiding- principles -and-factors -determining -
terms -financial -instruments .  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
 13 Decision 12/CMA.3  
Guidance to the G lobal Environment Facility  
 The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
 Recalling decision 7/CMA.2,  
 Noting paragraph 9(b) of the  Instrument for the Establishment of the Restructured 
Global Environment Facility,1  
1. Recommends that the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -sixth session transmit to 
the Global Environment Facility the guidance contained in paragraphs 2– 10 below;2 
2. Calls upon developed country Parties to make financial contributions to the Global 
Environment Facility to contribute to a robust eighth  replenishment of the Global 
Environment Facility to support developing countries in implementing the Paris Agreement 
and encourages  additional voluntary financial contributions to the eighth replenishment of 
the Global Environment Facility;  
3. Welcomes  the actio ns taken by the Global Environment Facility  to provide support to 
developing country Parties in accordance with Article 13, paragraphs 14– 15, of the Paris 
Agreement for preparing their biennial transparency reports and building their institutional 
and tech nical capacity for implementing the enhanced transparency framewor k under the 
Paris Agreement ; 
4. Also welcomes  that the Capacity -building Initiative for Transparency, established 
pursuant to decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 84, will continue  to support developing  country 
Parties, upon their request, in building their institutional and technical capacity for implementing the enhanced transparency framework and encourages  the Global 
Environment Facility, Parties and implementing agencies to work collaboratively to ensure that this support is delivered in a timely manner;  
5. Requests  the Global Environment Facility to continue  to facilitate improved access to 
the Capacity -building Initiative for Transparency by developing country Parties;  
6. Also r equests the Global Environment Facility to consider increasing its  support for 
implementation of the enhanced transparency framework as part of  its eighth  replenishment  
process ; 
7. Further requests the Global Environment Facility to contribute to the consideration 
of the support provided to developing country Parties referred to in decision 5/CMA.3 , 
paragraph 42,  by:  
(a) Estimating  the cost to developing countries of implementing the enhanced 
transparency framework , which includes establishing  and enhancing a reporting system, as 
well as  the full agreed cost of reporting and the cost of capacity -building  for reporting ; 
(b) Considering how to adequately incorporate the costs referred to in 
paragraph 7(a) above into the set -aside of the eighth replenishment process of the Global 
Environment Facility, while taking the necessary measures  to ensure, as appropriate, that the 
set-aside does not impact the allocation of resources to developing countries under the 
System for Transparent Allocation of Resources ; 
(c) Report ing to the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties 
to the Paris Agreement at its fourth session  (November 2022) on any actions taken to 
 
 1 Global Environment Facility. 2019. Instrument for the Establishment of the Restructured Global 
Environment Facility . Washington, D.C.: Global Environment Facility. Available at 
https ://www.thegef.org/documents/instrument -establishment -restructured -gef.  
 2 In accordance with decision 1/CP.21, para. 61.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
14  implement the guidance con tained in paragraph 7 (a–b) above and any changes to the 
estimated cost s referred to in paragraph 7 (a) above;  
(d) Report ing to the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties 
to the Paris Agreement on activities and provision of support unde r the Capacity -building 
Initiative for Transparency and on the provision of support for reporting under the Paris 
Agreement, as well as monitor ing and report ing on the timeliness of project  review, approval 
and preparation, including disaggregated tracking of each element of project development 
(from project identification form approval to submission of chief executive officer  approval 
request and disbursement through implementing agencies ); 
8. Requests the Global Environment Facility  to consider combining the application 
processes for support for producing biennial transparency reports , including  by considering 
raising the funding ceiling for  expedited enabling activity projects,  and for Capacity -building 
Initiative for Transparency projects, as a ppropriate , and by developing an expedited process 
for projects related to preparing biennial transparency reports ; 
9. Encourages  the Global Environment Facility , Parties and implementing agencies to 
work collaboratively to ensure that financing for national inventory reports and biennial 
transparency reports is delivered in a timely manner, including by utilizing the bundled 
application modality and expedited procedures for enabling activities , and requests the 
Global Environment Facility  to monitor the timeliness  of project review, approval and 
preparation, including disaggregated tracking of each phase  of project development ( from 
project identification form approval to submission of c hief executive officer  approval request  
and disbursement through implement ing agencies ) and report to the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its fourth session on the actions 
taken to implement the guidance contained in this paragraph;  
10. Also r equests the Global Environment F acility to consider raising the funding ceiling 
for expedited enabling activities . 
12th plenary meeting  
13 November 2021FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
 15 Decision 13/CMA.3  
Matters relating to the Adaptation Fund  
 The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
 Recalling  decisions 1/CMP.3, 1/CMP.4, 2/CMP.10, 1/CMP.11, 2/CMP.12, 
1/CMP.13, 1/CMP.14 and 3/CMP.15,  
1. Notes with appreciation decisions 13/CMA.1, paragraph 1, and 1/CMP.14, 
paragraph 2, which state that the Adaptation Fund shall serve the Paris Agreement with 
respect to all matters relating to the Paris Agreement;  
2. Takes note of  the annual report of the Adaptation  Fund Board for 2019 and decision 
3/CMP.15, paragraph 1;  
3. Notes the annual reports of the Adaptation  Fund Board for 2020 and 20211 and the 
information contained therein;  
4. Also notes the following information, actions and decisions  relating to the Adaptation 
Fund Board presented in the reports referred to in paragraph 3 above:  
(a) The accreditation  of 4 national implementing entities , 2 multilateral 
implementing entities and 1 regional implementing entity (with the national implementing 
entities granted direct  access to resources from the Adaptation Fund), resulting in a total 
number of accredited implementing entities of 33 national (of which 9 in the least developed countries and 7 in small island developing States), 14 multilateral and 7 regional implementing entities, of which 31 were reaccredited (16 national implementi ng entities, 4 
regional implementing entities and 11 multilateral implementing entities) for accessing resources from the Adaptation Fund directly;  
(b) Cumulative project and programme approvals increasing by around 32 per cent 
to USD 744.58 million between 1 July 2019 and 30 June 2020 and by 12 per cent to USD 831.49 million between 1 July 2020 and 30 June 2021, despite the challenging circumstances related to the coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic;  
(c) Resources available for new funding approvals amounting to USD  167.2 0 
million as at 30 June 2020 and USD 195.69 million as at 30 June 2021;  
(d) New funding approvals, including for concrete single -country and regional 
(multi- country) proposals, grant proposals under the M edium -Term Strategy of the 
Adaptation Fund for 2018 –2022
2 and readiness grants amount ing to USD 180.5 million as at 
30 June 2020 and USD 86.9 million as at 30 June 2021;  
(e) An active pipeline of project and programme proposals  submitted but not 
approved amounting to around USD 286 million as at 30 June 2020 and USD 279 million as 
at 30 June 2021, reflecting an upward trend from previous years;  
(f) The cumulative receipts of USD  1,107.40 million, as at 30 June 2021,  into the 
Adaptation Fund Trust Fund, comprising USD  208.38 million from the monetization of 
certified emission reductions , USD  858.82 million from contributions and USD  40.21 
million from investment income earned on the Trust Fund balance;  
(g) Contributions amounting to USD 200.89 mi llion between 1 July 2019 and 30 
June 2021 from the Governments of Germany, Ireland, Norway, Poland, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland, as well as the governments of the Brussels -Capital, Flemish and Walloon 
Regions of Belgium; new pledges amounting to USD 116 million from the Governments of 
Germany, Ireland, Italy and Sweden, as well as the governments of the Brussels -Capital and 
Walloon Regions of Belgium, towards the Adaptation Fund resource mobilization target of 
 
 1 FCCC/KP/CMP/2020/2−FCCC/PA/CMA/2020/2  and 
FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/2−FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/4 and Add.1.  
 2 See https://www.adaptation -fund.org/document/medium -term -strategy -2018 -2022/ .  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
16  USD 120 million per year for the biennium 20 20–2021; direct funding of EUR 10 million 
from the European Commission for a programme under the Adaptation Fund Innovation 
Facility ; and the transfer of aggregated contributions from the United Nations Foundation, 
comprising various individual donations m ade between 1 July 2019 and 30 June 2020,  
prepared by the Adaptation Fund Board s ecretariat and the trustee;  
(h) Outstanding pledges of USD 21.85 million as at 30 June 2020 and outstanding 
contributions of USD 36.27 million as at 30 June 2021;  
(i) The approval of 29 single -country project or programme proposals submitted 
by implementing entities, totalling USD 174 million, of which 9 proposals submitted by 
national implementing entities, amounting to USD 14.5 million; 1 single -country proposal 
submitted by a regional implementing entity , amounting to USD 9.9 million; and 19 single -
country proposals submitted by multilateral implementing entities, totalling USD 149.6 million; 
(j) The recommendation of the Project and Programme Review Committee to 
approve nine regional (m ulti-country) projects amounting to USD 93.9 million, for which 
funding was not readily available for one project from the tentatively set -aside amount, and 
the resulting decision of the Adaptation Fund Board to place it on a waitlist, to be approved intersessional ly subject to the availability of funds;  
(k) The ongoing implementation of activities under the Medium -Term Strategy of 
the Adaptation Fund for 2018– 2022, with the second, third, fourth and fifth review cycles for 
grant funding windows for innovation,  learning and project scale- up and the approval by the 
Adaptation Fund Board of the first four small -grant proposals  for innovation, the first grant 
proposal for project scale- up and two grant proposals for learning,  totalling USD 1,348,322; 
and the launch of two new innovation aggregator programmes, totalling USD 10 million, that 
offer small grants for innovation to non- accredited entities via two accredited multilateral 
implementing entities;  
(l) The facilitation of the  2
nd meeting of the Committee of the Community of 
Practice for Direct Access  Entities, held with the participation of the Green Climate Fund;  
(m) New activities under the M edium -Term Strategy of the Adaptation Fund for 
2018 –2022,  includ ing the approval of large grants for innovation and a funding window for 
enhanced direct access ; the endorsement of the principles of locally led adaptation action 
following engagement  with the Global Commission; and the launch of t he Adaptation Fund 
Climate Innovation Accelerato r; 
(n) The launch of  a virtual learning course on unlocking adaptation finance and 
accessing the A daptation Fund; 
(o) The approval of  funding decisions for readiness grants amount ing to 
USD  234,820, consisting of South– South cooperation grants and technical assist ance grants 
for the environmental and social safeguards policy and the gender policy;  and a  new readiness 
support package grant window following a successful pilot phase ; 
(p) The organization of virtual r eadiness events for accredited national 
implementing entities , including two webinars on project development, a global accreditation 
training workshop and a country exchange for South– South learning;  
(q) Cumulative disbursements to the 121 projects approved since the 
operationalization of the A daptation Fund amounting to  USD  485.9 million, including 
USD  76.2 million disbursed between 1 July 2020 and 30 June 2021;  
(r) The implementation  of proactive measures to support Parties and 
implementing entities in mitigating the effects of the pandemic and minimizing any re lated 
disruption, and to mitigate the impact on the portfolio of the Adaptation Fund;  
(s) The issuance of  targeted communication and messaging on themes such as the 
unique value of the pioneering scalable work of the A daptation Fund, the implementation of 
the Medium -Term Strategy of  the A daptation Fund for 2018– 2022, the response of the 
Adaptation Fund to the pandemic and the value of the A daptation Fund in building broader 
resilience;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
 17 (t) The promotion of l inkages of the A daptation Fund with other bodies under the  
Convention, such as the Adaptation Committee, the Climate Technology Centre and 
Network, the G lobal Environment Facility,  the G reen Climate Fund, the P aris Committee on 
Capacity -building and the Standing Committee on Finance  – the A daptation Fund Board held 
discussions on linkages between the A daptation Fund and the G reen Climate Fund, including 
through a framework for promoting the scaling up of funded projects and the C ommunity of 
Practice for D irect Access Entities ; 
(u) Policy decisions regarding project approval and implementation, including to 
streamline the project and programme review process, to update the policy for project and programme delays and to make readiness grants available throughout the year by including an additional review cycle;  
(v) The approval of  the updated A daptation Fund gender policy and action plan 
and application of  the updated A daptation Fund project performance report template by 
implementing entities to track progress more systematically;  
(w) Conside ration  of options for further enhancing civil society participation and 
engagement in Adaptation Fund work;  
(x) The implementation of activities of the T echnical Evaluation Reference Group 
of the Adaptation Fund as the basis for developing and approving its multi-year strategy and 
work programme and corresponding two- year budget , including evaluative activities as part 
of the multi- year strategy and work programme  approved by the Adaptation Fund Board, 
such as  the revision of the A daptation Fund evaluation fram ework and the midterm review 
of the M edium -Term Strategy of the Adaptation Fund for 2018– 2022;
3 
5. Welcomes with appreciation the decision of the Adaptation Fund Board to increase 
the finance access cap per country from USD 10 million to USD 20 million and t he number 
of accredited national implementing entities per eligible developing country Party from one to two;
4  
6. Welcomes  the financial pledges to the Adaptation Fund made by the European 
Commission, the Governments of Canada, Finland, Germany, Ireland, Norway, Qatar, Spain, 
Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States o f America, as well as the governments of the Brussels -Capital, Flemish and 
Walloon Regions of Belgium and the provincial government of Quebec, equivalent to 
USD  356 million;  
7. Takes note  of decision 3/CMP.16, confirms  that developing country Parties to the 
Paris Agreement that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change are 
eligible for funding from the Adaptation Fund, recall s decision 1/CMP.3, paragraph 4, and 
invites  the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting  of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol  to request the Adaptation Fund Board to amend the relevant operational policies and 
guidelines, as well as its strategic priorities, policies and guidelines accordingly;  
8. Takes note  of decision 3/CMP.16,  confirms  that Parties to the  Paris Agreement are 
eligible for membership on the Adaptation Fund Board, recalls  decision 1/CMP.3, 
paragraph 4, and invites  the Conference of the Parties  serving as the meeting of the Parties to 
the Kyoto Protocol  to request the Adaptation Fund Board to amend the relevant procedures 
and modalities ; 
9. Requests  the Adaptation Fund Board to provide a n update on its progress in  assisting 
developing countr y Parties in  meet ing their adaptation commitments under  the Paris 
Agreement ;  
10. Reiterates  the encouragement to scale  up financial resources , including the provision 
of voluntary support,  that are additional to the share of proceeds levied on certified emission 
 
 3 See Adaptation Fund Board document AFB/EFC.28/7. Available at  https://www.adaptation -
fund.org/document/mid-term -review -of-the-medium -term -strategy -of-the-adaptation -fund/ . 
 4 Adaptation Fund Boar d decision B.36/42. Available at https://www.adaptation -fund.org/documents -
publications/ . FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
18  reductions in order to support the resource mobilization efforts of the Adaptation F und Board 
with a view to strengthening the Adaptation Fund;5 
11. Requests  the Adaptation Fund Board, in line with its existing mandate and decisions 
1/CMP.3 and 1/CMP.4 , to consider and provide an update on its activities and scope of 
support in relation to a ssisting developing country Parties to the Paris Agreement, including 
information on:  
(a) Actions in relation to needs and priorities identified in adaptation planning 
processes, including national adaptation plans, nationally determined contributions, 
adaptat ion communications and other voluntary adaptation reports, taking into consideration 
gaps and challenges faced by countries;  
(b) Institutional capacity -building  in countries aimed at enhancing access to the 
Adaptation Fund;  
(c) Efforts to support the global  goal on adaptation of enhancing adaptive capacity, 
strengthening resilience and reducing vulnerability to climate change with a view to 
contributing to sustainable development and ensuring an adequate adaptation response in the context of the global tempe rature goal referred to in Article 2 of the Paris Agreement;  
12. Notes the summary by the Adaptation Fund Board
6 of its consideration of its rules of 
procedure; the implications of the Adaptation Fund receiving the share of proceeds from activities under Articles 6, 12 and 17 of the Kyoto Protocol when the Adaptation Fund serves 
the Paris Agreement; and  any other matter so as to ensure that the Adaptation Fund serves 
the Paris Agreement smoothly;
7 
13. Encourages  the Adaptation Fund Board to continue its considera tion of its rules of 
procedure in the context of serving the Paris Agreement, including after the Subsidiary Body 
for Implementation has concluded its consideration of matters related to membership of the Adaptation Fund Board.
8 
12th plenary meeting  
13 November 2021
 
 5 Decision 3/CMP.15, para. 5.  
 6  Pursuant to decision 1/CMP.14, para. 6.  
 7 See document FCCC/KP/CMP/2019/4/Add.1−FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/2/Add.1 , annexes IV –V. 
 8 See decision 1/CMP.14, para. 5.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
 19 Decision 14/CMA.3  
Compilation and synthesis of, and summary report on the in -
session workshop on, biennial communications of 
information related to Article 9, paragraph 5, of the Paris 
Agreement  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement ,  
Recalling Article 9 , paragraphs 1– 5, of the Paris Agreement,  
Also recalling  Articles 3, 4, 7, 10, 11 and 14 of the Paris Agreement,  
Further  recalling  decisions 3/CP.19, 1/CP.21, 13/CP.22, 12/CP.23 and 1 2/CMA.1 , 
paragraphs 9– 11, 
Underlin ing the importance of Article 9, paragraphs 1 and 3, of the Paris Agreement  
on this matter , 
Recalling  that developed country Parties, as part of a global effort, should continue 
to take the lead in mobilizing climate finance from a wide variety of sources, instruments 
and channels, noting the significant role of public funds, thr ough a variety of actions, 
including supporting country -driven strategies, and taking into account the needs and 
priorities of developing country Parties , and that such mobilization of climate finance should 
represent a progression beyond previous efforts ,  
Underlining the commitment to continuously improve the transparency  of climate 
finance flows  and enhance accountability , 
1. Recognizes the importance of predictability and clarity of information on financial 
support for the implementation of  the Paris Agreement  in accordance with decision 
12/CMA.1;  
2. Reiterates  that developed country Parties shall biennially communicate indicative 
quantitative and qualitative information related to Article 9, paragraphs 1 and 3, of the Paris Agreement, as applicable, including, as available, projected levels of public financial resources to be provided to developing country Parties, and that other Parties providing resources are encouraged to communicate biennially such information on a voluntary basis;
1 
3. Welcomes  the first biennial communications of developed country Parties rec eived to 
date2 in accordance with decision 12/CMA.1;  
4. Recognizes with concern that not all developed country Parties have provided biennial 
communications in accordance with Article 9, paragraph 5 , of the Paris Agreement  and as 
specified in the annex to decision 12/CMA.1;  
5. Urges developed country Parties to submit  biennial communications  in 2022;  
6. Welcome s the compilation and synthesis3 prepared by the secretariat of the 
information contained in the first biennial communications in accordance with Article 9, 
paragraph 5, of the Paris Agreement ; 
7. Underscores the importance of the information contained in the biennial 
communications referred to in paragraph 2  above and identified in the compilation and 
synthesis referred to in paragraph 6  above, including in relation to: 
(a) Making finance flows consistent with a pathway towards  low-emission and 
climate -resilient development in accordance  with Article 2, paragraph 1(c), of the Paris 
Agreement;  
 
 1 Article 9, para. 5, of the Paris Agreement.  
 2 Available at https://unfccc.int/Art.9.5 -biennial -communications . 
 3 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021 /3. FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
20  (b) Develop ing actions and plans for mobilizing private climate finance;  
(c) Effectively address ing the needs and priorities of developing countries, 
including striking a balance between support for mitigation and adaptation;  
(d) Integrat ing climate change considerations, including climate resilience, into 
international development assistance;  
(e) Improv ing enabling environments to strengthen the absorptive capac ity of 
developing countries;  
(f) Reflect ing on lessons learned for informing future efforts in providing,  
mobilizing and delivering climate finance ; 
8. Welcomes the summary report4 on the biennial in -session workshop on information to 
be provided by Parties in accordance with Article 9, paragraph  5, of the Paris Agreement  held 
on 11 June 2021 and invites Parties and relevant institutions to consider the key findings and 
messages contained therein;  
9. Recalls  that the next biennial  in-session workshop on information to be provided by 
Parties in accordance with Article 9, paragraph 5, of the Paris Agreement will be held in 
2023;5 
10. Notes that the  elements for discussion at the workshop referred to in paragraph 9  above 
will be based on the information in the compilation and synthesis  reports referred to in 
paragraphs  6 above and 16 below and  the summary report referred in paragraph 8 above,  
including lessons learned;  
11. Requests  the secretariat to organize the workshop referred to in paragraph 9 above and 
prepare a summary report on the workshop for consideration by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its fifth session (November 2023);  
12. Also requests developed country Parties to submit their second  biennial 
communications in 2022, in accordance with decision 12/CMA.1 , paragraph 4 , before 
31 December 2022 ; 
13. Invites  developed country Parties to take into account the areas for  improvement 
identified in the summary report referred to in paragraph 8  above in preparing their second 
biennial communications  in 2022 in accordance with the annex to decision 12/CMA.1, 
particular ly in relation to:  
(a) The indicative projections of climate finance for developing countr ies and 
specific plans for scaling up the provision and mobilization of climate finance;  
(b) The information provided on projected levels of climate finance and lack of 
detail on themes, various channels and instruments across the biennial communications ; 
(c) The information on the shares of projected climate finance for  adaptation and 
mitigation, and on plans for addressing the balance between the two;   
14. Recognizes  that developed country Parties submitted information related to Article 9, 
paragraphs 1 and 3, of the Paris Agreement for the first time in 2020 and that improvements based on lessons learned should be considered when preparing biennial communications in 
2022, taking into account the areas for  improvement identified in the summary report referred 
to in paragraph 8  above , and, in accordance with decision 12/CMA.1 and its annex, including 
enhancing the quality and granularity of information on programmes, including projected 
levels, channels and instruments, particularly on climate finance for the least develop ed 
countries and small island develop ing States, and on relevant methodologies and 
assumptions ; 
15. Encourages  other Parties providing resources to communi cate biennially the 
information referred to in paragraph 2 above on a voluntary basis;  
 
 4 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/5.  
 5 Decision 12/CMA.1, para. 8.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
 21 16. Requests  the secretariat to prepare a compilation and synthesis of the biennial 
communications in accordance with decision 12/CMA.1, paragraph 7;  
17. Welcomes the deliberat ions at the first high -level ministerial dialogue on climate 
finance in accordance with decision 12/CMA.1, paragraph 10, and looks forward to  the 
summary thereof to be prepared by the Presidency of the Conference of the Parties;  
18. Takes note  of the estimated  budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat  referred to in paragraphs 11  and 16 above ; 
19. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resource s. 
12th plenary meeting  
13 November 2021FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
22  Decision 15/CMA.3  
Enhancing climate technology development and transfer to 
support implementation of the Paris Agreement  
 The Conference of the Parties serving as  the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
 Recalling Article 10 of the Paris Agreement,  
 Also recalling decision s 1/CP.21, paragraphs 66 and 68, 15/CMA.1 and 8/CMA.2,  
1. Welcomes the joint annual reports of the Technology Executive Committee and the 
Climate Technology Centre and Network for 2020 and 20211 and commends  their efforts to 
advance their work, as guided by the technology framework;  
2. Welcomes  the continuing collaboration of the Technology Executive Committee and 
the Climate  Technology Centre and Network and invites  them to strengthen their 
collaboration and the provision of feedback between them with a view to ensuring coherence 
and synergy and effective implementation of the mandates of the Technology Mechanism, 
inter alia , by exploring the preparation of a joint programme;  
3. Takes note  of the information provided in the joint annual report for 2020 on how the 
Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Centre and Network have 
incorporated the guidance contained in the technology framework into their respective workplan and programme of work;
2 
4. Acknowledges with appreciation the commencement of the joint activities of the 
Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Centre and Network on technology and nationally determined contributions,
3 and on technology and gender, and the 
preparation of a joint publication on technology and nationally determined contributions4 and 
of joint recommendations on how to stimulate the uptake of climate technology solutions to 
support the implementation of nationally determined contributions ;5 
5. Invites  Parties and relevant stakeholders, in planning and implementing action related 
to nationally determined contributions, to consider and build on the recommendations 
contained in the joint publication referred to in paragraph 4 above ;  
6. Also invites the Technology Executive Committee  and the Climate Technology Centre 
and Network to:  
(a) Continue their work on technology and nationally determined contributions  in 
2022 –2023, in particular by implementing relevant recommendations in the joint publication 
referred to in paragraph  4 above ; 
(b) Enhance their efforts to ensure full and effective implementa tion of the 
technology framework through their respective workplan and programme of work;  
I. Activities and performance of the Technology Executive 
Committee in 2020– 2021 
7. Appreciates  the flexibility of the Technology Executive Committee in adapting to new 
ways of working, including through the use of virtual platforms for meetings and events, and 
in constructively engaging with its members, task forces, observers and other relevant 
 
 1 FCCC/SB/2020/4 and FCCC/SB/2021/5 . 
 2 See document FCCC/SB/2020/4 , annex II.  
 3 Pursuant to decision 8/CMA.2, para. 3.  
 4 Technology Executive Committee and Climate Technology Centre and Network. 2021.  Technology 
and nationally determined contributions . Bonn: UNFCCC. Available at  
https://unfccc.int/ttclear/tec/techandndc.html . 
 5 See document FCCC/SB/2021/5 , annex I.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
 23 stakeholders, thereby facilitating progress in successfully implementing  activ ities in its 
rolling workplan for 2019– 2022 ;6 
8. Invites Parties and relevant stakeholders to consider the key messages and 
recommendations of the Technology Executive Committee for 2020– 2021 on technology 
policy in the following areas: technology needs assessment; technologies for averting, 
minimizing and addressing loss and damage in coastal zones; international collaborative research, development and demonstration; innovative approaches to stimulating the uptake of existing clean technology solutions; and endogenous capacities and technologies;
7 
9. Notes with appreciation the collaboration of the Technology Executive Committee 
with other constituted bodies and relevant organizations in implementing its workplan activities;  
10. Welcomes  the successful organiza tion of the Technology Day events in 2020– 2021
8 
to promote innovative approaches t o adaptation technologies related to climate -smart 
agriculture and ocean and coastal adaptation and encourage s the Technology Executive 
Committee  to continue using such events to strengthen the impacts of its work and to reach 
target audiences;  
11. Commends the Technology Executive Committee on its efforts to mainstream gender 
considerations in its work, including through a structured approach that strives to ensure that gender f ocal points play an active role and gender balance is achieved with regard to the 
speakers at all its events in 2021, and looks forward  to its continuing efforts on this matter;  
12. Invites the Technology Executive Committee to further increase its activitie s on 
outreach and stakeholder engagement to disseminate its policy and  publications, especially 
to target audiences;  
13. Notes  with concern  that the Technology Executive Committee membership 
composition prevents certain Parties from fully participating in its work;  
II. Activities and performance of the Climate Technology Centre 
and Network in 2020 –2021 
14. Welcomes the initiative of the Climate Techn ology Centre and Network to adapt to 
operational challenges resulting from the continuing pandemic by focusing on the 
implementation of technical assistance requests and making use of online stakeholder 
engagement and capacity -building activities; 
15. Takes  note of the activities, performance and key messages of the Climate Technology 
Centre and Network in 2020– 2021, including challenges faced and lessons learned;  
16. Welcomes  the efforts of the Climate Technology Centre and Network to be more 
inclusive by impleme nting its gender action plan and enhancing engagement with the 
constituencies of women and gender, youth and indigenous people s organizations ; 
17. Notes with appreciation that the Climate Technology Centre and Network is now the 
largest provider of readiness s upport for technology under the Green Climate Fund Readiness 
and Preparatory Support Programme and encourages  the Climate Technology Centre and 
Network to continue its collaboration  through the R eadiness and Preparatory Support 
Programme and to extend its engagement through the Project Preparation Facility  with the 
Green Climate Fund ; 
18. Welcomes with appreciation the establishment of the Climate Technology Centre and 
Network partnership and liaison office in Songdo, Republic of Korea, which will focus its work on, inter alia,  collaborating with the Green Climate Fund and research and development, 
and invites  the Climate Technology Centre and Network to report on experience and lessons  
learned therefrom ; 
 
 6 Available at  https://unfccc.int/ttclear/tec . 
 7 See documents FCCC/SB/2020/4 and FCCC/SB/2021/5.  
 8 See https://unfccc.int/ttclear/events/2020/2020_event07 . FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
24  19. Welcomes  with appreciation the continuing collaboration between the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network and the Adaptation Fund, including through the Adaptation 
Fund Climate Innovation Accelerator, and encourages  the Climate Technology Centre and 
Network to  further strengthen its collaboration with the Adaptation Fund in this regard;  
20. Welcomes  the action of the Climate Technology Centre and Network to engage with 
the private sector in develop ing and implement ing its programme of work, including the 
deliver y of technical assistance and capacity development through small and medium -sized 
enterprises , and its efforts to enhance engagement with the private sector and  Network 
members;  
21. Invites  the Climate Technology Centre and Network to continue its efforts to support 
developing countries in preparing and updating technology needs assessments and 
technology action plans, as well as their implementation , upon request;  
22. Also invites  the Climate Technology Centre and Network to continue providing 
support for enhancing the capacity of national designated entities in developing countries to 
enable them to fulfil their roles.  
11th plenary meeting  
12 November 2021FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
 25 Decision 16/CMA.3  
Alignment between processes pertaining to the review of the 
Climate Technology Centre and Network and the periodic 
assessment referred to in paragraph 69 of decision 1/CP.21  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
Recalling decisions 2/CP.17, 14/CP.18, 1/CP.21, 15/CMA.1 and 16/CMA.1,  
1. Welcomes with appreciation the constructive engagement of Parties in considering 
matters relating to the alignment between processes pertaining to the review of the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network1 and the periodic assessment of the effectiveness and 
adequacy of the support provided to the Technology Mechanism in supporting the 
implementation of the Paris Agreement on matters relating to technology development and transfer (hereinafter referred to as the periodic assessment of the Technology Mechanism) under the S ubsidiary Body for I mplementation,  in accordance with decision 16/CMA.1, 
paragraph 6;  
2. Notes  the information note prepared by the secretariat  on possible options, and their 
implications, for aligning processes pertaining to the independent review of the Climate Technology Centre and Network a nd the periodic assessment of the Technology 
Mechanism ;
2 
3. Acknowledges  the importance of the effectiveness, efficiency and complementarity of 
work on aligning processes pertaining to the independent review of the Clim ate Technology 
Centre and Network and the periodic assessment of the Technology Mechanism;  
4. Underlines  the importance of the outcome of each of the two processes under 
consideration in enhancing the effectiveness of the Technology Mechanism in meeting its objectives; 
5. Acknowledges  the need to continue the respective processes for conducting the 
periodic assessment of the Technology Mechanism under the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  and the independent re view of 
the C limate Technology Centre and N etwork  under the C onference of the P arties ;  
6. Agrees  to align the periodicity of the periodic assessment of the Technology 
Mechanism and the independent review of the C limate Technology Centre and N etwork ; 
7. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to initiate , at its sixty -second 
session (2025), consideration of matters relating to the alignment between processes pertaining to the independent review of the Climate Technology Centre and Network and the 
periodic  assessment of the Technology Mechanism with a view to recommending a draft 
decision on this matter for consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its eighth session (2026).  
11
th plenary meeting  
12 November 2021
 
 1 In accordance with decisions 2/CP.17, 14/ CP.18 and 12/CP.24.   
 2 FCCC/SBI/2020/INF.5.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
26  Decision 17/CMA.3  
First periodic assessment referred to in paragraph 69 of 
decision 1/CP.21 
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
Recalling decisions 1/CP.21, 15/CMA.1 and 16/CMA.1,  
Also recalling that the outcomes of the first periodic assessment referred to in decision 
16/CM A.1, paragraph 1,  should serve as input to the global stocktake referred to in Article 
14 of the Paris Agreement,  
1. Initiates  the first periodic assessment of the effectiveness and adequacy of the support 
provided to the Technology Mechanism in supporting th e implementation of the Paris 
Agreement on matters relating to technology development and transfer in accordance with 
the scope and modalities contained in the annex to decision 16/CMA.1 with a view to completing it at its fourth session (November 2022);  
2. Requests the secretariat to prepare an interim report on the effectiveness and adequacy 
of the support provided to the Technology Mechanism in supporting the implementation of the Paris Agreement on matters relating to technology development and transfer for consideration by the Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its fifty- sixth session (June 
2022).  
11
th plenary meeting  
12 November 2021FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
 27 Decision 18/CMA.3  
Annual technical progress reports of the Paris Committee on 
Capacity -building for 2020 and 2021  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement ,  
  Recalling  decision 3/CMA.2,  
1. Welcomes the annual technical progress reports of the Paris Committee on Capacity-
building for 2020 and 20211 and takes note  of the recommendations contained in the 2021 
report ;2 
2. Invites Parties, as appropriate, the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism, the 
constituted bodies under the Paris Agreement, United  Nations organizations, observers and 
other stakeholders  to consider the recommendations referred to in paragraph 1 above and to 
take any necessary action, as appr opriate and in accordance with their mandates;  
3. Acknowledges  progress made by the Paris Committee on Capacity -building in 
implementing its mandate to address gaps and needs , both current and emerging, in 
implementing capacity -building in developing country Parties and further enhancing 
capacity -building efforts, including with regard to the coherence and coordination of 
capacity -building activities under the Paris Agreement; 
4. Takes note  of the conclusion of the implementation of the final activities in the rolling 
workplan of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building  for 2017– 2020;3 
5. Also takes note of progress made in the implementation of the workplan of the Paris 
Committee on Capacity -building for 2021– 20244 on the basis of the priority areas and 
activities contained in the annex to decision 9/CP.25 and referred to in decision 3/CMA.2, 
paragraph 4;  
6. Welcomes the work of the Paris Committee  on Capacity -building in relation to 
enhancing t he coherence and coordination of capacity- building activities under the Paris 
Agreement , including its collaboration with constituted bodies and other actors under the 
Paris Agreement ; 
7. Also welcomes  the collaboration of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building with 
Parties and non -Party stakeholders, including through the PCCB Network, the i nformal  
coordination group for capacity -building under the Convention and the Paris  Agreement , the 
Durban Forum  on capacity -building , the Capacity -building Hub and socia l media outreach ; 
8. Takes note of  the 2022 focus area of the  Paris Committee  on Capacity -building of 
building capacity to facilitate coherent implementation of nationally determined contributions in the context of national development plans and sustainable recovery;
5 
9. Notes that capacity gaps and needs still exist in  developing countries pertaining to the 
implementation of  the Paris Agreement ; 
10. Invites  Parties and relevant institutions , as appropriate, to provide support and 
resources to the Paris Committee on Capacity -building for implementing its workplan for 
2021 –2024 in the ligh t of the aim of the Committee established in decision 1/CP.21 . 
10th plenary meeting  
11 November 2021
 
 1 FCCC/SBI/2020/13 and FCCC/SBI/2021/10.  
 2  FCCC/SBI/2021/10, paras. 72 –81. 
 3 Available at https://unfccc.int/documents/209801 . 
 4 Available at https://unfccc.int/documents/267207 . 
 5  See document FCCC/SBI/2021/10, para. 15.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
28  Decision 19/CMA.3  
Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage 
associated with Climate Change Impacts  
 The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement ,1 
 Recalling  decision 2/CP.19, whereby the Warsaw Inter national Mechanism for Loss 
and Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts was established to address loss and 
damage associated with the impacts of climate change, including extreme events and slow onset events, in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change,  
 Also recalling decisions 3/CP.18, 2/CP.19, 2/CP.20, 1/CP.21, 2/CP.21, 3/CP.22, 
4/CP.22, 5/CP.23, 10/CP.24, 2/CP.25 and 2/CMA.2,  
 Being aware of the  relevant provisions of decisions 18/CMA.1 and 19/CMA.1,  
 Recalling  Article 8 of the Paris Agreement,  
 Also recalling  decision 2/CMA.2, noted in decision 2/CP.25, whereby the next review 
of the Warsaw International Mechanism was recommended to be held in 2024 and every five years thereafter,  
 Acknowledging the efforts of the Presidencies of the Conference of the Parties  at its 
twenty -fifth and twenty -sixth sessions between those sessions concerning the Santiago 
network,  
 Noting  the increasing urgency of enhancing efforts to avert, minimize and address loss 
and damage  in the light of continued global warming and its signi ficant impacts on vulnerable 
populations and the ecosystems on which they depend, as illustrated by the findings of the latest scientific reports, including the contribution of Working Group I to the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change,
2 
1. Welcomes  the reports of the Executive Committee of the Warsaw International 
Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts for 2020 and 2021,
3 including the recommendations contained therein;  
2. Also welcomes the continued progress of the Executive Committee in implementing 
its five -year rolling workplan and that of its expert groups in implementing their plans of 
action, including in response to the relevant outcomes of the 2019 review of the Warsaw International Mechanism, despite the extraord inary challenges due to the coronavirus disease 
2019 pandemic;  
3. Further welcomes : 
(a) The adoption by the Executive Committee of the plans of action of its expert 
groups on non- economic losses, slow onset events, and action and support, and the continued 
progre ss of implementation of the plans of action of the task force on displacement and the 
technical expert group on comprehensive risk management;  
(b) The decision of the Executive Committee to update its five -year rolling 
workplan in 2022;  
 
 1 Nothing in this document prejudices Parties’ views or prejudges outcomes on matters related to the 
governance of the Warsaw International Mechanism  for Loss and Damage associated with Climate 
Change Impacts . 
 2 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change . 2021. Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science 
Basis. C ontribution of Working Group I to the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change . V Masson -Delmotte, P Zhai, A Pirani, et al. (eds.). Cambridge: Cambridge 
University Press. Available at https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg1/ .  
 3 FCCC/SB/2020/3 and FCCC/SB/2021/4 and Add.1 –2.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
 29 (c) The provision of input to the Standing Committee on Finance relating to the 
draft guidance for the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism;  
(d) The progress of the Executive Committee, further to decision 19/CMA.1, in 
preparing its contribution for the technical assessment com ponent of the global stocktake;  
4. Encourages  the Executive Committee to: 
(a) Include in its contribution referred to in paragraph 3(d) above, to the extent 
possible, information on challenges, opportunities, best practices and lessons learned in 
implementing the  functions of the Warsaw International Mechanism as well as on activities 
and products relevant to the loss and damage considerations under the global stocktake, 
including in the context of decision 19/CMA.1, paragraphs 6(b)(ii) and 36(e);  
(b) Consider includi ng in the agendas for its regular meetings a standing item on 
how the latest climate science can inform policymaking;  
5. Expresses appreciation to: 
(a) Organizations and other stakeholders that contributed to the success of the 
work undertaken and to the constituted bodies that collaborated with the Executive Committee and its expert groups in 2020– 2021;  
(b) Organizations that have submitted information pursuant to decision 2/CMA.2, 
paragraph 44;  
6. Invites  organizations, bodies, networks and experts to include the following when 
reporting on the technical assistance provided to developing countries
4 with the aim of 
enhancing the information captured in the reports of the Executive Committee:  
(a) The type of technical assistance provided;  
(b) The developing countries to which technical assistance was provided and 
when;  
(c) The involvement of and collaboration among stakeholders at the local, 
subnational, national, regional and international level, as applicable;  
(d) Challenges experienced in providing technical assistance;  
(e) The ways in  which countries may access the technical assistance available;  
7. Encourages , noting the breadth of topics addressed in the strategic workstreams5 of 
the Executive Committee, a broad range of organizations, bodies, networks and experts from all regions, wor king at the local, subnational, national, regional and international level, 
including those in developing countries and those that are represented in the expert groups of the Executive Committee, to engage in the Santiago network for averting, minimizing a nd 
addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change while avoiding duplication of their ongoing efforts;  
8. Acknowledges that the entities referred to in paragraph 7 above, particularly those that 
are based in developing count ries, may need support, including financial support, in 
providing technical assistance;  
9. Decides that the Santiago network is to have the following functions:  
(a) Contributing to the effective implementation of the functions
6 of the Warsaw 
International Mechan ism, in line with the provisions in paragraph 7 of decision 2/CP.19 and 
Article 8 of the Paris Agreement, by catalysing the technical assistance of organizations, 
bodies, networks and experts;  
(b) Catalysing demand- driven technical assistance,  including of relevant 
organizations, bodies, networks and experts, for the implementation of relevant approaches 
 
 4 As per decision 2/CMA.2, para. 44.  
 5 As contained in the annex to document FCCC/SB/2017 /1/Add.1 . 
 6 Decision 2/CP.19, para. 5.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
30  to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage in developing countries that are 
particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of clim ate change by assisting in:  
(i) Identifying, prioritizing and communicating technical assistance needs and 
priorities;  
(ii) Identifying types of relevant technical assistance;  
(iii) Actively connecting those seeking technical assistance with best suited 
organizations, bodies, networks and experts;  
(iv) Accessing technical assistance available,  including from such organizations, 
bodies, networks and experts;  
(c) Facilitating the consideration of a wide range of topics relevant to averting, 
minimizing and addressing loss and damage  approaches, including but not limited to current 
and future impacts, priorities, and actions related to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage pursuant to decisions 3/CP.18 and 2/CP.19, the areas referred to in Article 8, 
paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreement and the strategic workstreams of the five- year rolling 
workplan of the Executive Committee;  
(d) Facilitating and catalysing collaboration, coordination, coherence and 
synergies to accelerate action by organizations, bodies, networks and experts , across 
communities of practices, and for them to deliver effective and efficient technical assistance 
to developing countries;  
(e) Facilitating the development, provision and dissemination of, and access to, 
knowledge and information on averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage, 
including comprehensive risk management approaches, at the regional, national and local level;  
(f) Facilitating, through catalysing technical assistance of organizations, bodies, 
networks and experts, access to action and suppo rt (finance, technology and capacity-
building) , under and outside the Convention and the Paris Agreement, relevant to averting, 
minimiz ing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate 
change, including urgent and timely responses to the impacts of climate change;  
10. Also decides to further develop the institutional arrangements of the Santiago network 
by: 
(a) Inviting  Parties and relevant organizations to submit via the submission portal
7 
by 15 March 2022  their views on the following aspects of the Santiago network:  
(i) Operational modalities;  
(ii) Structure; 
(iii) The role of the Executive Committee and its expert groups, task force and 
technical expert group;  
(iv) The role of loss and damage contact points and other relevant stakeholders a t 
the subnational, national and regional level;  
(v) Possible elements for the terms of reference of a potential convening or 
coordinating body that may provide secretarial services to facilitate work under the Santiago network;  
(b) Requesting the secretariat to o rganize a technical workshop
8 prior to the  fifty-
sixth sessions of the subsidiary bodies  (June 2022) , under the guidance of the Chairs of those 
bodies, with inputs from the Executive Committee and the participation of Parties and relevant organizations, b odies, networks and experts, to elaborate on the submissions referred 
to in paragraph 10(a) above;  
 
 7 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx . 
 8 With the workshop to be held in a hybrid in- person and virtual format to encourage broad 
participation.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
 31 (c) Requesting the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice and 
the Subsidiary Body for Implementation, at their fifty- sixth sessions, to consider  the 
submissions referred to in paragraph 10(a) above and the discussions at the technical 
workshop referred to in paragraph 10(b) above with a view to providing recommendations for consideration and adoption by the governing body at its next session or the governing bodies at their next sessions ; 
11. Requests  the secretariat to continue providing support for developing countries that 
are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change that may seek or wish to 
benefit from the technical assista nce available from organizations, bodies, networks and 
experts under the Santiago network,  without prejudice to the outcomes of the consideration 
by the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice and the Subsidiary Body for 
Implementation of m atters relating to the network;  
12. Encourages , recognizing the urgent need for scaling-up action and support, as 
appropriate, including finance, technology and capacity- building, for the implementation of 
relevant approaches
9 to averting, minimizing and addr essing loss and damage in developing 
countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change, the Executive Committee, on the basis of its recommendation s, to: 
(a) Continue engaging and strengthening its dialogue with the Standing 
Committee on Finance,  including by providing input to the Standing Committee on Finance 
when, in accordance with its mandate, it provides information, recommendations and draft guidance relating to the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism, as appropriate;  
(b) Commence, continue and/or explore potential ways to enhance, as appropriate, 
collaboration with the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism to inform the work of the Executive Committee and its expert group on action and support;  
13. Notes that considerations related to the governance of the Warsaw International 
Mechanism will continue at its fourth session ( November  2022) ;
10 
14. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in this decision;  
15. Requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial res ources .  
12th plenary meeting  
13 November 2021
 
 9 Approaches  relevant to , inter alia, slow onset events, non -economic losses and human mobility.  
 10 It is noted that discussions on the governance of the Warsaw International Mechanism  did not 
produce an outcome; this is without prejudice to further consideration of this matter.   FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
32  Decision 20/CMA.3  
Modalities and procedures for the operation and use of a 
public registry referred to in Article 4, paragraph 12, of the 
Paris Agreement  
 The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
1. Notes with appreciation the efforts of the secretariat to dev elop a prototype of the 
public registry referred to in Article 4, paragraph 12, of the Paris Agreement (hereinafter 
referred to as the prototype);  
2. Concludes , having considered  the prototype presented to and amended by Parties at 
this session, that the prot otype conforms with the modalities and procedures contained in 
decision 5/CMA.1 and will serve as the public registry referred to in Article 4, paragraph 12, of the Paris Agreement;  
3. Requests  the secretariat to adopt the prototype as the public registry and finalize its 
implementation, verify with Parties the name of the Party, document title, document file type, version number, status, language and date of submission, as referred to in paragraph 1(a) of the annex to decision 5/CMA.1,  and make the registry a vailable for use by 1 June 2022.  
11
th plenary meeting  
12 November 2021FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
 33 Decision 21/CMA.3  
Modalities and procedures for the operation and use of a 
public registry referred to in Article 7, paragraph 12, of the 
Paris Agreement  
 The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
1. Notes with appreciation the efforts of the secretariat to develop a prototype of the 
public registry referred to in Article 7, paragraph 12, of the Paris Agreement (hereinafter 
referred to as the prototype);  
2. Concludes , having considered  the prototype presented to and amended by Parties at 
this session, that the prototype conforms with the modalities and procedures contained in decision 10/CMA.1 and will serve as the public registry referred to in Article 7, paragraph 12, 
of the Paris Agreement;  
3. Request s the secretariat to adopt t he prototype as the public registry and finalize its 
implementation, verify with Parties the name of the Party, document title, document type, hyperlinks to corresponding documents containing the adaptation communications,
1 version 
number, status, language and date of submission,  as referred to in paragraph 1(a) of the annex 
to decision 10/CMA.1, and make the registry available for use by 1 June 2022.  
11th plenary meeting  
12 November 2021
 
 1 As appropriate, submitted as a component of or in conjunction with other communications or 
documents, including a national adaptation plan, a nationally det ermined contribution and/or a 
national communication, as referred to in Article 7, para.  11, of the Paris Agreement.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
34  Decision 22/CMA.3  
Glasgow work programme on Action for Climate 
Empowerment  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
Recalling Articles 4 and 6 of the Convention and Article 12 of the Paris Agreement,  
Also recalling decisions 15/CP.18, 19/CP.20, 17/CP.22, 15/CP.25 and 17/CMA.1,  
Further recalling decisions 17/CP.22 and 17/CMA.1, in which it was decided that 
efforts related to implementing Article 6 of the Convention and Article 12 of the Paris 
Agreement should be referred to as Action for Climate Empowerment,  
Reaffirming  the importance of all six elements of Action for Climate Empowerment 
– education, training, public awareness, public participation, public access to information and 
international cooperation on climate change –  to achieving the objective of the Convention 
and the purpose and goals of the Paris Agreement,  
Recognizing that Action for Climate Empowe rment plays a key role in promoting the 
changes in lifestyles, attitudes and behaviours needed to foster low -emission, climate -
resilient and sustainable development,  
Reaffirming the key role that a broad range of stakeholders, such as national, regional 
and local governments, educational and cultural institutions, museums, the private sector, 
intergovernmental organizations, non- governmental organizations, international 
organizations, decision makers, scientists, the media, teachers, youth, women and indige nous 
peoples, play in ensuring Action for Climate Empowerment,  
Acknowledging the importance of linkages between activities undertaken to support 
Action for Climate Empowerment and other relevant international arrangements, including 
the 2030 Agenda for Sus tainable Development and Education for Sustainable Development 
for 2030, as well as regional agreements,  
Noting with appreciation the contributions of Parties and observers, including the 
members of the United Nations Alliance on Climate Change Education, Training and Public Awareness, to supporting Action for Climate Empowerment work undertaken to date,  
Recognizing the importance o f taking a long -term, strategic and country- driven 
approach to Action for Climate Empowerment at the local, national, regional and international level, including strengthening support for local, national and regional 
institutional and sectoral expertise an d capacity for its implementation,  
Acknowledging the growing interest and engagement of youth in climate action and 
the critical role of youth as agents of change and calling for  further enhancement of youth 
participation in climate change processes and in  unleashing the potential of Action for 
Climate Empowerment,  
Recognizing that ensuring the availability of and access to sufficient financial 
resources and technical support for adequately implementing Action for Climate Empowerment continues to be a chall enge for all Parties, but particularly for developing 
country Parties,  
Having completed the review of the Doha work programme on Article 6 of the 
Convention,  
1. Notes with appreciation the relevant submissions from Parties and relevant 
organizations
1 and the  relevant reports prepared by the secretariat;2 
 
 1 As per decision 15/CP.25, paras. 2– 4. 
 2 FCCC/SBI/2020/9, FCCC/SBI/2020/INF.4 and FCCC/SBI/2021/1.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
 35 2. Acknowledges  that the Doha work programme on Article 6 of the Convention 
provided good guidance for action on implementing the six elements of Action for Climate 
Empowerment;  
3. Recognizes the importance of enhancing the implementation of Action for Climate 
Empowerment across all relevant areas of implementation of the Convention and the Paris Agreement;  
4. Adopts  the 10- year Glasgow work programme on Action for Climate Empowerment, 
contained in the annex, taking i nto account the elements identified as effective in supporting 
implementation as well as gaps, needs and opportunities for improvement;  
5. Invites  Parties and relevant non -Party stakeholders to engage in and support 
implementation of the Glasgow work programm e while maintaining a country -driven 
approach;  
6. Also invites  multilateral and bilateral institutions and organizations, including the 
operating entities of the Financial Mechanism, as appropriate, to provide financial support for activities related to imple menting Action for Climate Empowerment;  
7. Encourages  Parties to strengthen the integration of Action for Climate Empowerment 
into the development and implementation of national climate policies, plans, strategies and action, including by developing and imple menting a national strategy that covers all six 
elements of Action for Climate Empowerment and facilitates broad cross -sectoral 
coordination and collaboration;  
8. Also encourages Parties to continue designating, assigning responsibilities to, and 
providing support, including technical and financial support, and access to information and materials to national Action for Climate Empowerment focal points; 
9. Further encourages  intergover nmental and non- governmental organizations in a 
position to do so to provide technical or financial support for Action for Climate 
Empowerment activities; 
10. Requests  the secretariat to promote partnerships with other organizations, the private 
sector and donors in order to support implementation of the Glasgow work programme;  
11. Also requests the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to:  
(a) Facilitate implementation of the Glasgow work programme under the guidance 
of its Chair, subject to the availability of financial resources;  
(b) Hold an annual in- session Action for Climate Empowerment dialogue at its 
first regular session of each year with the participation of Parties, representatives of relevant 
constituted bodies, and relevant experts, practitioners and stakeholders that focuses on the progress of implementation of the Glasgow work programme and on its four priority areas: policy coherence; coordinated action; tools and support; and monitoring, evaluation and reporting;  
(c) Focus the first in -session dialogue, to be held at its fifty -sixth session (June 
2022), on the engagement of children and youth in implementation of the four priority areas of the Glasgow work programme referred to in paragraph 11(b) above;  
(d) Consider, at its second regular session of each year, the annua l summary report 
to be prepared by the secretariat on progress in implementing activities under the Glasgow work programme (see para. 12(a) below);  
(e) Undertake the development of an action plan at its fifty -sixth session focusing 
on immediate action through short -term, clear and time- bound activities, guided by the 
priority areas set out in the Glasgow work programme, with a view to recommending a draft decision on this matter for adoption by Conference of the Parties at its twenty -seventh session 
(November 2022) and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its fourth session (November 2022);  
(f) Convene at its fifty -sixth session an in -session technical workshop for Parties 
on how the priority areas listed in paragraph 11(b) above can guide implementation of the 
six elements of Action for Climate Empowerment, through a short -term action plan guiding, FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
36  inter alia, the organization of the annual in -session Action for Climate Empowerment 
dialogue;  
(g) Undertake a midterm review of progress at its sixty -fourth session (2026) and 
a final review of progress at its seventy -fourth session (2031) of the Glasgow work 
programme to evaluate its effectiveness, identify any emerging gaps and needs, and inform 
any consideration of improving the work programme, as appropriate;  
12. Further r equests  the secretariat to assist the Chair of the Subsidiary Body for 
Implementation with activities related to the facilitation of implementation referred to in paragraph 11(a) above  and, under the guidance of the Chair, to:  
(a) Prepare an annual summary report on progress in implementing activities 
under the Glasgow work programme for consideration by the Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its second regular session of each year;  
(b) Prepare a synthesis report ahead of the midterm review and the final review of 
the Glasgow work programme on the integration of Action for Climate Empowerment into relevant reports and communications submitted by Parties to the secretariat as part of the UNFCC C process for consideration by the Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its sixty-
fourth and seventy- fourth sessions , respectively;  
13. Invites  Parties and observers to submit their views on matters to be addressed at the 
in-session workshop referred to in pa ragraph 11(f) above via the submission portal
3 by 28 
February 2022;  
14. Takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraph 12 above and paragraphs 6(b– c) and 11 of the 
annex;  
15. Reque sts that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
 
 3 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx . FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
 37 Annex  
Glasgow work programme on Action for Climate 
Empowerment  
I. Guiding principles  
1. The Glasgow work programme on Action for Climate Empowerment (ACE) sets out 
the scope of and provides the basis for activities related to implementing ACE in accordance 
with the provisions of the Convention and the Paris Agreement. The work programme serve s 
as a flexible framework for country -driven action that addresses the specific needs and 
circumstances of Parties and reflects their national priorities and initiatives while building long- term capacity and expertise in developed and developing countries for implementing 
ACE, including by promoting strong domestic enabling environments.  
2. The Glasgow work programme builds on work undertaken in response to relevant 
decisions of the Conference of the Parties (COP) and the Conference of the Parties  serving 
as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement (CMA) .
1 
3. The Glasgow work programme shall be guided by:  
(a) A country -driven approach;  
(b) Cost-effectiveness;  
(c) Flexibility; 
(d) A gender and intergenerational  approach;  
(e) A phased approach that integrates activities under  Article 6 of the Convention 
and Article 12 of the Paris Agreement into climate change programmes and strategies;  
(f) The promotion of partnerships, networks and synergies, in particular synergies 
among conventions;  
(g) An interdisciplinary multisectoral, multi- stakeholder and participatory 
approach;  
(h) A holistic systematic approach; 
(i) The principles of sustainable development.  
II. Scope  
4. The Glasgow work programme comprises activities under four action -oriented 
priority areas and the six ACE elements that Parties, taking into account national circumstances, and non -Party stakeholders may carry out to enhance implementation of ACE, 
including through cooperation, collaboration and partnerships.  
III. Priority areas 
5. Four thematic priority areas have been identified as relevant to ad dressing gaps and 
challenges in implementing the six ACE elements and for creating opportunities to accelerate that implementation.  
 
 1 Decisions 15/CP.18, 19/CP.20, 17/CP.22, 15/CP.25 and 17/CMA.1.  FCCC/P A/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
38  A. Policy coherence  
6. Recognizing that activities related to ACE are also carried out under workstreams that 
are part of the UNFC CC process, as well as under frameworks and processes of the United 
Nations system and in multiple sectors and strategies at the national level, the priority area 
of policy coherence has the aim of strengthening coordination of work under ACE. Efficient and effective ACE implementation can be enabled by undertaking the following at the 
international level:  
(a) Inviting all constituted bodies under the Convention and the Paris Agreement 
to include in their regular reports information on how ACE is implemented under their respective workstreams;  
(b) Inviting the Presidencies  of the COP and the CMA , with the support of the 
secretariat, to convene an in -session event at each of their session s focused on a thematic area 
relevant to the Convention and the Paris Agreement to promote coherence and strengthen coordination of work on ACE undertaken by constituted bodies and other United Nations entities and under other United Nations processes;  
(c) Encouraging the secretariat and other United Nations and intergovernmental 
organiza tions to strengthen their collaboration with a view to ensuring the provision of 
coordinated support to Parties for their activities related to ACE and avoiding duplication of work.  
7. At the national level, Parties are encouraged to strengthen integration of  ACE into the 
development and implementation of national climate policies, plans, strategies and action, including by developing and implementing a national strategy that covers all six ACE elements and facilitates broad cross -sectoral coordination and col laboration.  
8. In addition, at the national level, Parties are also encouraged to continue designating, 
assigning responsibilities to, and providing support, including technical and financial support, and access to information and materials to national ACE focal points. Such responsibilities could include identifying areas for possible international cooperation and opportunities for strengthening synergies with action under other conventions, and coordinating the preparation of the chapter on ACE in national c ommunications, ensuring 
that relevant contact information, including weblinks, is provided therein.  
B. Coordinated action  
9. This priority area has the aim of continuing to build long- term, strategic, operational, 
multilevel, multi- stakeholder, intergenerational partnerships that bring together different 
expertise, resources and knowledge to accelerate ACE implementation. Such p artnerships 
can be fostered by undertaking the following activities at the international level:  
(a) Holding an annual in- session ACE dialogue at the first regular session of the 
Subsidiary Body for Implementation each year with the participation of Parties, representatives of relevant constituted bodies , and relevant experts, practitioners and 
stakeholders that focuses on the progress of implementation of the Glasgow work programme and on its four priority areas:  
(i) Policy coherence;  
(ii) Coordinated action;  
(iii) Tools and support;  
(iv) Monitoring, evaluation and reporting;  
(b) Organizing an annual youth forum in collaboration with children and youth 
organizations, including the constituency of youth non-governmental organizations (NGOs) 
and other youth NGOs;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
 39 (c) Inviting Parties and stakeholders to develop international, regional and 
national programmes and activities, including the preparation of training and education 
materials and tools, using local languages where applicable and practical.  
10. At the national leve l, Parties are encouraged to:  
(a) Prepare assessments of needs specific to national circumstances in the area of 
ACE implementation, including use of social research methods and other relevant instruments to determine target audiences and partnerships;  
(b) Strengt hen in- country coordination and institutional arrangements at different 
levels to avoid duplication of efforts, promote knowledge -sharing, foster local networks and 
enhance collaboration among all stakeholders in relation to ACE implementation.  
C. Tools and s upport  
11. This priority area is aimed at enhancing access to tools and support for building 
capacity and raising awareness among Parties, national ACE focal points and non- Party 
stakeholders with regard to ACE. ACE implementation can be enhanced by undertaki ng the 
following activities at the international level:  
(a) Requesting the secretariat to:  
(i) Strengthen the network of national ACE focal points at the international and 
regional level, including by facilitating regular exchanges of views, good practices and le ssons learned to build and strengthen capacity and skills, and by facilitating peer 
support for ACE implementation;  
(ii) Raise awareness of and promote bilateral and multilateral initiatives and 
programmes related to ACE implementation;  
(iii) Enhance communication an d information -sharing about ACE and its six 
elements through existing UNFCCC web- based resources and communication 
activities;  
(b) Inviting relevant international organizations, including United Nations 
organizations, and other non- Party stakeholders to:  
(i) Support implementation of ACE activities through their work programmes and 
through specific programmes focused on climate change, including, as appropriate, by providing and disseminating information and resources, such as visual materials that could be easily translated and adapted, and by providing financial and technical support;  
(ii) Facilitate partnerships and networking among Parties, intergovernmental 
organizations, NGOs, academia, the private sector, state and local governments and community -based organizatio ns with the aim of jointly designing, implementing and 
evaluating ACE activities and policies; 
(iii) Contribute to implementation of the Glasgow work programme in their areas 
of competence;  
(iv) Support Parties in developing long- term, strategic and country -driven 
approaches to ACE that are linked to national climate change objectives, and in 
strengthening relevant national institutions;  
(v) Design and implement training programmes, develop guidelines and provide 
other direct support to national ACE focal points;  
(vi) Facilitate, in partnership with Parties and civil society actors, the organization 
of global, regional, subregional and national workshops focusing on specific priority 
areas of the Glasgow work programme.  
12. At the national level, Parties are encouraged to determin e the most efficient and cost -
effective way to implement ACE activities, and to develop funding instruments at the national FCCC/P A/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
40  level, where appropriate, to support such activities, in particular at the subnational and local 
level.  
13. Parties are also encouraged to establish partnerships with other Parties, as well as with 
intergovernmental organizations, NGOs and other stakeholders , to facilitate implementation 
of ACE activities, including with a view to developing institutional and te chnical capacity 
to: 
(a) Identify gaps and needs related to ACE  implementation;  
(b) Assess the effectiveness of ACE activities ; 
(c) Consider linkages between ACE activities, implementation of policies and 
measures to mitigate and adapt to climate change, and other means of implementation under the Convention and the Paris Agreement, such as technology transfer and capacity -building.  
14. Parties are further encouraged to build the capacity of youth to embark on and lead 
ACE implementation and promote youth participation in relevant climate processes at the 
national and international level, including by including youth in national delegations at 
UNFCCC meetings.  
D. Monitoring, evaluation and reporting  
15. This priority area is aimed at strengthening monitoring, evaluation and report ing of 
the implementation of all six ACE elements at all levels, according to Parties’ specific priorities, needs and national circumstances. Monitoring, evaluation and reporting can be strengthened by undertaking the following activities at the international level :  
(a) Inviting Parties to provide information in their national communications, 
where possible, and in other reports on activities and policies involving ACE implementation, reporting on accomplishments, lessons learned, experience, and challenges an d opportunities , 
noting that the six ACE elements provide a useful guide for this reporting;  
(b) Inviting United Nations agencies, intergovernmental organizations and other 
non-Party stakeholders to submit information to the secretariat on ACE implementation a t all 
levels for inclusion in the annual summary report on progress in implementing activities 
under the Glasgow work programme . 
16. At the national level, Parties are encouraged to share with the public and all 
stakeholders the findings contained in their nat ional communications and national action 
plans or domestic programmes on climate change regarding ACE implementation, using tools such as social media to reach and engage multiple stakeholders, as appropriate. Parties are also encouraged to promote greater  involvement of non -Party stakeholders to support 
them in monitoring, evaluating and reporting ACE activities.  
IV. Implement ing the six elements of Action for Climate 
Empowerment  
A. Parties and non -Party stakeholders  
17. As part of their national programmes to implem ent the Convention and the Paris 
Agreement, and taking into account national circumstances, Parties and non -Party 
stakeholders are encouraged to undertake activities under the six ACE elements, which are listed in paragraphs 18 –23 below.  
1. Education
 
18. Parties and non- Party stakeholders are encouraged to collaborate on, promote, 
facilitate, develop and implement formal and non -formal education and training programmes 
focused on climate change at all levels, targeting the involvement of women and youth in FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
 41 particu lar, including by organizing exchanges or secondments of personnel to provide 
training for experts.  
2. Training  
19. Parties and non -Party stakeholders are encouraged to collaborate on, promote, 
facilitate, develop and implement training programmes focused on clim ate change for groups 
with a key role in climate action, such as scientific, technical and managerial personnel, 
journalists, teachers and community leaders at the international, national, regional, subregional and local level, as appropriate. Technical skills and knowledge are required to adequately address and respond to climate change issues.  
3. Public awareness
 
20. Parties and non- Party stakeholders are encouraged to cooperate in, promote, facilitate, 
develop and implement public awareness programmes on climat e change and its effects at 
the national and, as appropriate, subregional, regional and international level by, inter alia, encouraging individuals to contribute to and take their own action to address climate change, supporting climate -friendly policies a nd fostering behavioural change, including through the 
use of popular media, noting the important role that social media platforms and strategies can play in this context.  
4. Public access to information
 
21. Parties and non- Party stakeholders are encouraged to fa cilitate public access to data 
and information by providing information on climate change initiatives, policies and results of actions that enables the public and other stakeholders to understand, address and respond to climate change. This should take int o account such factors as quality of Internet access, 
level of literacy and language differences.  
5. Public participation
 
22. Parties and non- Party stakeholders are encouraged to promote public participation in 
addressing climate change and its effects and in dev eloping adequate responses by facilitating 
feedback, debate and partnership in relation to climate change activities and relevant governance, noting the important role that social media platforms and strategies can play in this context.  
6. International coope ration
 
23. Parties and non -Party stakeholders are encouraged to promote subregional, regional  
and international cooperation in undertaking activities within the framework of the Glasgow work programme, which has the potential to enhance the collective ability of Parties to implement the Convention and the Paris Agreement. Intergovernmental organiz ations and 
NGOs can also contribute to its implementation. Such cooperation can further enhance synergies of action under different conventions and improve the effectiveness of all sustainable development efforts.  
B. Parties  
24. As part of their national programm es and activities in implementing the Convention 
and the Paris Agreement, and within the framework of the Glasgow work programme, Parties could undertake the activities listed in paragraphs 25 –30 below, as appropriate.  
1. Education  
25. Parties are encouraged to:  
(a) Integrate climate change learning into the curricula of schools and other 
institutions that provide formal education, and support non- formal and informal education on 
climate change, including respect for and inclusion of indigenous and traditional knowledge;  FCCC/P A/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
42  (b) Strengthen education, training and skills development in national institutions 
to deliver action on climate change learning.  
2. Training  
26. Parties are encouraged to:  
(a) Develop tools and methodologies for supporting climate change training and 
skills development through collaboration, and provide training programmes for groups with 
a key role in climate change communication and education, including journalists, teachers, 
academics, youth, children and community leaders;  
(b) Enhance the capacity of teachers and academics to integrate climate into their 
curricula by developing materials and promoting training focused on climate change at the regional and international level, whe re appropriate;  
(c) Train government officials from different ministries and departments, 
including those working in local government, on how climate change relates to their respective areas of work with a view to strengthening institutional and technical capa city. 
3. Public awareness  
27. Parties are encouraged to:  
(a) Inform the public on the causes of climate change and sources of greenhouse 
gas emissions, as well as on actions that can be taken at all levels to address climate change;  
(b) Encourage the public to contribute  to mitigation and adaptation actions as part 
of public awareness programmes;  
(c) Develop strategies for communicating on climate change on the basis of 
targeted sociological research with a view to encouraging behavioural change;  
(d) Conduct surveys, including of  knowledge, attitudes, behaviour and practices, 
to establish the level of public awareness of climate issues, which can serve as a basis for further work and support the monitoring of the impact of activities;  
(e) Develop criteria for identifying good practice s for ACE and disseminate 
information thereon, at the national or regional level according to national circumstances and 
capacities, and promote the sharing of such practices;  
(f) Conduct government campaigns to inform the public on issues such as climate 
chan ge, climate action and vulnerabilities, including through social media, electronic 
communication, festivals and cultural events, or by partnering with urban and rural local communities; 
(g) Create communities of practice, knowledge and learning that are available and 
accessible to a wide range of stakeholders, including women, children and youth, the elderly and persons with disabilities.  
4. Public access to information  
28. Parties are encouraged to:  
(a) Increase the availability of copyright -free and translated material on climate 
change, in accordance with laws and standards relating to the protection of copyrighted material; 
(b) Seek opportunities to widely disseminate information on climate change. 
Measures could include translating information into other languages, as appropriate, and distributing simplified versions of key documents on climate change, including Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Assessment Reports;  
(c) Include accurate information on climate change science and mitigation on 
national and subnational government websites;  
(d) Make scientific information on climate change mitigation and adaptation freely 
available and accessible to the public;  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
 43 (e) Make national clim ate reports available in local languages for vulnerable 
communities, including people with special needs;  
(f) Improve public access to information on climate change at the national and 
local level using a range of methods and tools, taking into account the dif ferent ways 
particular communities, groups and individuals, including women and children and youth, 
may be impacted by climate change.  
5. Public participation  
29. Parties are encouraged to:  
(a) Seek public participation and input, including from youth, women, civil s ociety 
organizations and other groups, in formulating and implementing efforts to address climate change and in relation to preparing national communications, and encourage the involvement and participation of representatives of all stakeholders and major groups in the climate change negotiation process;  
(b) Foster the participation of all stakeholders in ACE implementation and invite 
them to report thereon. In particular, enhance the active participation of youth, women, civil society organizations and the media; 
(c) Establish public –private or public –non-profit partnerships between national 
ACE focal points for implementing ACE activities (e.g. university partnerships);  
(d) Hold frequent, inclusive civil society consultations on climate decision -
making, including foll ow-up processes with specific outcomes such as feedback surveys that 
enable participants to express how they feel their input was used;  
(e) Develop guidelines for enhancing public participation in climate change 
decision -making and the inclusion of  children and youth, and for assisting local governments 
and the public in climate change decision- making.  
6. International cooperation  
30. Parties are encouraged to: 
(a) Seek to enhance cooperation and coordination in developing and implementing 
ACE activities at the internatio nal and regional level. This includes identifying partners and 
building networks with other Parties, intergovernmental organizations, NGOs, the private  
sector, provincial and local governments, and community- based organizations. Parties should 
also promote  and facilitate the exchange of information and materials and the sharing of 
experience and good practices;  
(b) Promote and encourage regional programmes and projects developed by 
Parties, intergovernmental organizations, NGOs, the private sector, provincial a nd local 
governments, and community -based organizations that support the implementation of ACE 
and promote the sharing of experience, including through the dissemination of best practices and lessons learned and the exchange of information and data  
11
th plenary meeting  
12 November 2021FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
44  Decision 23/CMA.3  
Matters relating to the forum on the impact of the 
implementation of response measures  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement , 
Recalling  decisions 7/CMA.1, 19/CMA.1 and 4/CMA.2,  
1. Welcomes  with appreciation the annual report of the Katowice Committee of Experts 
on the Impacts of the Implementation of Response Measures (hereinafter referred to as the 
Katowice Committee on Impacts) for 2020 –20211 and the progress of the Katowice 
Committee on Impacts in supporting the work of the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures (hereinafter referred to as the forum) , noting that, on 
an exceptional basis, the 2020– 2021 annual report was considered before consideration of 
the 2020 annual report and continuation of consideration of the 2019 annual re port;  
2. Welcomes the informal event and technical expert meetings held virtually in 2020 and 
2021
2 by the Chairs of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice and the 
Subsidiary Body for Implementation, which served as input  to the forum’s work on 
implementing the relevant activities in the workplan of the forum and its Katowice Committee on Impacts ,
3 and underscores the challenges experienced with participating in 
meetings in a virtual setting in 2020 and 2021;  
3. Notes the limitations to pro gress and limited progress in the implementation of the 
functions and modalities of the forum and of certain  activities in the workplan by the forum, 
including due to the exceptional circumstances, and therefore requests the secretariat to hold 
a two -day w orkshop in conjunction with the fifty -sixth sessions of the subsidiary bodies (June 
2022)  to further advance the implementation of workplan activities  3, 4 and 11;  
4. Welcomes  the progress made by the Katowice Committee on Impacts in implementing 
the workplan and the inputs of experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  to the work 
of the forum and its Katowice Committee on Impacts;  
5. Adopts the recommendations pertaining t o activity 1 of the workplan contained in 
annex I, forwarded by the forum in the 2020 –2021 annual report of the Katowice Committee 
on Impacts , and invites Parties to implement them, as applicable; 
6. Adopts  the revised rules of procedure of the Katowice Committee on Impacts  
contained in annex II;  
7. Recalls  decision 7/CMA.1 and the functions of the forum and notes  that the forum, 
when considering the annual reports of the Katowice  Committee on Impacts  and the 
recommendations contained therein, should consider way s to promote actions to minimize 
the adverse impacts and maximize the positive impacts of the implementation of response measures ; 
8. Requests  the forum, at the fifty -sixth sessions of the subsidiary bodies,  to consider 
ways to promote actions to minimize the adverse  impacts and maximize the positive impacts 
of the implementation of response measures  on the recommendations contained in annex I;  
9. Recalls  the rules of procedure of the Katowice Committee on Impacts
4 and 
encourages  groups to nominate members to the Katowice Committee on Impacts taking into 
account the goal of achieving gender  balance;  
 
 1 Katowice Committee on Impacts  document KCI/2021/4/8. Available at https://unfccc.int/process -and-
meetings/bodies/constituted -bodies/KCI . 
 2 See https://unfccc.int/topics/mitigation/workstreams/response -measures/workshops -and-events .  
 3 Contained in annex II to decisions 4/CP.25, 4/CMP.15 and 4/CMA.2.  
 4 Decision 4/CMA.2, annex I.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
 45 10. Requests  the secretariat to organize a regional workshop on activity 3 of the workplan 
before the fifty -sixth sessions of the subsidiary bodies  in collaboration with relevant 
organizations and stakeholders, to address regional  needs and acknowledge the work that is 
being carried out by the Katowice Committee on Impacts and notes  that further regional 
workshops on acti vity 3 could be decided on by the forum;  
11. Invites  Parties and observers to submit via the submission portal5 by April 2022 their 
views on the elements of the midterm review of the workplan of the forum and its Katowice 
Committee on Impacts  and requests the secretariat to prepare a summary o f the submissions 
with a view to informing Parties’ discussion on the midterm review starting at the fifty -sixth 
sessions of the subsidiary bodies;6 
12. Encourages , recalling decisions 19/CMA.1 and 4/CMA.2,  Parties to submit their 
views on efforts related to addressing the social and economic consequences and impacts of response measures via the submission portal by February 2022 and requests  the secretariat 
to prepare and submit a compilation of the submissi ons from Parties  as input to the first global 
stocktake;  
13. Also requests, recalling  decisions 19/CMA.1 and 4/CMA.2, the Katowice Committee 
on Impacts  to submit by February 2022, with the assistance of the secretariat, a synthesis 
report reflecting the releva nt work of both the forum and its Katowice Committee on Impacts  
as an input to the technical assessment component of the first global stocktake, which will start at the fifty -sixth sessions of the subsidiary bodies;  
14. Takes  note of the estimated budgetary im plications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 3, 11, 12 and 13 above;  
15. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.
 
 5 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx . 
 6 As per decision  19/CMA.1, para. 24.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
46  Annex I  
Recommendations forwarded by the forum pertaining to 
activity 1 of the workplan: exploring approaches to inform 
the development and implementation of climate change 
mitigation strategies, plans, policies and programmes that 
maximize the positive and minimize the negative impacts of response measures  
1. Encourage Parties to engage relevant stakeholders at each step of the process of 
designing and implementing climate mitigation policies and policies to achieve sustainable 
development , including through social dialogue, when possible and subject to national 
circumstances. The relevant stakeholders among others include workers, employers, 
organizations, academia, the public and private sectors, women and civil society.  
2. Encourage Parties to explore complementary policies, such as economic policies, 
social protection and labour policies, to help strengthen the outcomes of the implementation 
of mitigation strategies, plans, policies and programmes , including nationally determined 
contributio ns and low -emission development strategies.  
3. Encourage Parties to strengthen international and regional cooperation as it 
contributes to planning and implementation of mitigation policies with environmental and socioeconomic benefits, for example to help fa cilitate technology development and transfer 
in accordance with Article 10 of the Paris Agreement, and strive towards harmonized regional approaches.  
4. Encourage Parties to use existing qualitative and quantitative assessment 
methodologies and tools to under stand social, economic and employment effects of proposed 
mitigation measures as a way to inform and guide climate policies and to maximize the positive and minimize the negative effects of the implementation of response measures. More analysis of impacts,  including, inter alia, sectoral, national, subnational, domestic and cross 
border, would be useful for informing climate policies and understanding how to maximize the positive and minimize the negative effects of the implementation of response measures.  
5. Encourage the forum and its Katowice Committee of Experts on the Impacts  of the 
Implementation of Response Measures  to enhance the capacity of Parties, particularly 
developing country Parties, through training and capacity- building efforts, including existing 
initiatives. This will enable Parties to carry out their own assessments and analyses of the impacts of respon se measures.FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
 47 Annex II  
Revised rules of procedure of the Katowice Committee of 
Experts on the Impacts of the Implementation of Response 
Measures  
I. Scope  
1. These rules of procedure shall apply to the Katowice Committee of Experts on the 
Impacts of the Implementation of Response Measures (KCI) in accordance with decision 
7/CMA.1 and its annex.  
II. Mandate  
2. The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement (CMA), by decision 7/CMA.1, decided to establish the KCI to support the work 
of the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures in implementing its work programme and operating in accordance with the terms of reference contained in the annex to that decision.  
3. The forum and the KCI may use the follow ing modalities, as appropriate and as 
decided on a case- by-case basis,  to carry out the work programme of the forum:  
(a) Building awareness and enhancing information -sharing through the exchange 
and sharing of experience and best practices;  
(b) Preparing technical  papers, case studies, specific examples and guidelines;  
(c) Receiving inputs from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations;  
(d) Organizing workshops.  
III. Members  
4. The CMA, by decision 7/CMA.1, decided that the KCI shall be composed of 14 
members, of which:  
(a) Two members from each of the five United Nations regional groups;  
(b) One member from the least developed countries;  
(c) One member from the small island developing States;  
(d) Two members from relevant intergovernmental organizations.1  
5. By the same decision, the CMA also decided that members shall be nominated by 
their respective groups. Groups are encouraged to nominate members taking into account the goal of achieving gender balance. The Chairs of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice (SBSTA) an d the Subsidiary Body for Implementation (SBI) shall be 
notified of these appointments.
2  
6. The CMA further decided that members shall serve in their expert capacity and should 
have relevant qualifications and expertise in the technical and socioeconomic fi elds related 
to the areas of the work programme of the forum.3 
 
 1 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(b).  
 2 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, par a. 4(d).  
 3 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(c).  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
48  7. Further, the CMA decided that members shall serve a term of two years and be eligible 
to serve a maximum of two consecutive terms in office.4 The following rules shall apply:  
(a) Half of the members shall be nominated initially for a term of three years and 
half of the members for a term of two years;  
(b) Thereafter, members are nominated for a term of two years;  
(c) The members shall remain in office until their successors are nominated . In 
such a case, the KCI shall notify the Chairs of the SBSTA and the SBI . 
8. The term of office of a member shall commence at the first meeting of the KCI in the 
calendar year of their appointment and end immediately before the first meeting of the KCI 
in the calendar year after their second calendar year5 in office.  
9. If a member of the KCI resigns or is otherwise unable to complete the assigned term 
of office or to perform the functions of that office, the KCI shall request the group that nominated the member to nominate another member for the remainder of the unexpired term, 
in which case the appointment shall count as one term. In such a case, the KCI shall notify 
the Chairs of the SBSTA and the SBI.  
10. If a member is unable to participate in two consecutive meetings of the KCI or unable 
to perform the functions and tasks set by the KCI, the Co- Chairs of the KCI will bring this 
matter to the attention of the KCI and seek clarification from the group that nominated that member on the status of their membership.  
IV. Conflict of interest  
11. The KCI members must promptly disclose, and recuse themselves from, any 
deliberations or decision- making that could have a bearing on their personal or financial 
interests, in order to avoid a conflict of interest or the appearance of  one. Further, KCI 
members shall not disclose any information deemed by the KCI as confidential that they 
receive in the course of their duties, even after leaving the KCI . 
V. Co-Chairs  
12. The CMA decided that the KCI shall elect, on a consensus basis, two memb ers from 
among its members to serve as Co- Chairs for a term of two years each, taking into account 
the need to ensure equitable geographical representation.6 
13. The CMA also decided that if one of the Co- Chairs is temporarily unable to fulfil the 
obligations  of the office, another member designated by the KCI shall serve as Co- Chair.7 
14. If one of the Co- Chairs is unable to complete the term of office, the KCI shall elect a 
replacement from among its members of the relevant group of the incumbent Co- Chair, if 
available, to complete that term of office.  
15. The Co -Chairs shall collaborate in chairing meetings of the KCI and in facilitating the 
work of the KCI throughout the year, in accordance with the workplan of the forum and its KCI, to ensure coherence between meetings.  
16. Following the completion of the Co- Chairs’ two -year term of office, the KCI shall 
nominate two members as Co- Chairs to serve the next two -year term of office.  
17. The Co -Chairs shall declare the opening and closing of meetings of the KCI, ensure 
the observance of these rules of procedure and rule on points of order.  
 
 4 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(e).  
 5 Third calendar year for members serving an initial term of three years in accordance with paragraph 
7(a) above . 
 6 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(f).  
 7 Decis ion 7/CMA.1, annex, para . 4(g).  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
 49 18. The Co -Chairs shall call upon speakers at meetings of the KCI in the order in which 
they signify their desire to speak. The secretariat shall maintain a list of speakers. The Co -
Chairs may c all a speaker to order if their remarks are not relevant to the subject under 
discussion.  
19. The KCI may further define additional roles and responsibilities for the Co- Chairs.  
20. In exercising their functions, the Co- Chairs shall remain under the authority of the 
KCI.  
VI. Secretariat  
21. The secretariat shall support and facilitate the work of the KCI, by:  
(a) Making the necessary arrangements for the meetings of the KCI, including 
announcing meetings, issuing invitations, making the necessary travel arrangements for 
memb ers eligible for funding for their participation in meetings and making available 
relevant documents for meetings;  
(b) Maintaining meeting records and arranging for the storage and preservation of 
documents of meetings of the KCI;  
(c) Making documents of meetings of the KCI available to the public, unless 
otherwise decided by the KCI.  
22. The secretariat shall assist the KCI in tr acking its actions, in accordance with the 
workplan of the forum and its KCI, in its annual report.  
23. In addition, the secretariat shall perform any other functions assigned by the KCI, in 
accordance with the workplan of the forum and its KCI.  
VII. Meetings  
24. The KCI shall meet twice per year, for two days per meeting, in conjunction with the 
sessions of the subsidiary bodies.  
25. At least nine members of the KCI must be present to constitute a quorum.  
26. Members are requested to confirm their attendance at meetings of th e KCI as early as 
possible, and at least four weeks prior to a meeting for members eligible for funding for their 
participation, to enable sufficient time for the secretariat to make the necessary travel arrangements.  
27. Should technical and financial resourc es permit, open meetings of the KCI shall be 
webcast on the UNFCCC website.  
28. At each of its meetings, the KCI shall propose the dates of its next meeting. The Co-
Chairs will agree the dates of the next meeting in consultation with the secretariat.  
VIII.  Agenda an d documentation for meetings  
29. The Co -Chairs, assisted by the secretariat, shall prepare the provisional agenda and 
provisional annotated agenda for each meeting of the KCI in accordance with the workplan of the forum and its KCI. The Co- Chairs will prepare a report on the meeting, to be agreed 
by members, and this will be made available on the UNFCCC website. The Co- Chairs will 
report back to the forum on the meeting of the KCI.  
30. The provisional agenda and provisional annotated agenda for each meeting shall be 
transmitted to the members of the KCI at least four weeks in advance of the meeting.  
31. Members may propose additions or changes to the provisional agenda and provisional 
annotated agenda, in writing, to the secretariat within one week of receiving the documents, FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
50  and these additions or changes shall be considered for a revised provisional agenda and 
provisional annotated agenda by the secretariat in agreement with the Co- Chairs.  
32. The secretariat shall transmit the provisional agenda and provisional annotat ed agenda 
and any supporting documentation to the members at least two weeks prior to a meeting. Documents may be transmitted after that date with the approval of the Co -Chairs.  
33. Documents for a meeting shall be published on the UNFCCC website at least two  
weeks prior to that meeting, to the extent possible.  
34. The KCI shall, at the beginning of each meeting, adopt the agenda for that meeting.  
35. The CMA decided that members of the KCI shall prepare an annual report for 
consideration by the forum with a view to making recommendations for consideration by the 
SBSTA and the SBI, which, in turn, are to recommend actions to the Conference of the Parties (COP), the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol (CMP)  and the CMA  for their consideration and adoption.
8  
36. The annual report shall be made available on the UNFCCC website before the relevant 
sessions of the COP, the CMP  and the CMA . 
IX. Decision -making  
37. The CMA decided that the KCI shall operate on the basis of consensus of its 
members.9 
38. The KCI may use electronic means to facilitate its work, as appropriate and in 
accordance with the workplan of the forum and its KCI.  
X. Working language  
39. The working language of the KCI shall be English.  
XI. Participation of expert advisers in meetings 
40. The KCI, in fulfilling  its mandate, should draw upon outside expertise at its meetings.  
41. The Co -Chairs may, in consultation with the KCI, invite representatives of 
international organizations, the private sector, academia and/or civil society to pa rticipate in 
a meeting of the KCI as expert advisers on specific issues under consideration at the meeting.  
XII. Participation of observers  
42. The CMA decided  that meetings of the KCI shall be open to attendance as observers 
by all Parties and accredited observer organizations, unless otherwise decided by the KCI.10  
43. The KCI may decide to close a meeting or part thereof to observers at any time.  
44. The secretariat shall make the dates and venues of the meetings available to the public 
to enable participation by observers.  
45. Observers may, with the agreement of the KCI, be invited to address the KCI on 
matters under consideration by the KCI. The Co- Chairs shall notify the KCI one week in 
advance of the meeting of any proposed interventions by observers.  
46. The KCI may reque st interventions from observers throughout the meeting, as 
appropriate.  
 
 8 Decision 7/CMA.1, para. 12, and annex, para. 4(j).  
 9 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(i).  
 10 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(h).   FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
 51 XIII.  Use of electronic means of communication  
47. The KCI shall use electronic means of communication to facilitate intersessional 
work , as appropriate and in accordance with the workplan of t he forum and its  KCI. The 
secretariat shall ensure that a secure and dedicated web interface is established and 
maintained to facilitate the work of the KCI.  
XIV. Working groups  
48. The KCI may establish working groups among its members to support the forum in 
performing its functions. The working groups may receive inputs from experts, practitioners 
and relevant organizations in accordance with the workplan of the forum and its KCI and in line with paragraphs 40 –41 above.  
XV. Workplan  
49. The KCI will support the work of t he forum in line with the workplan of the forum 
and its KCI.  
XVI. Amendments to the rules of procedure  
50. The KCI may recommend amendments to these rules of procedure for consideration 
by the forum and approval by the subsidiary bodies.  
51. Proposals and amendments to proposals for the rules of procedure may be introduced 
and submitted to the secretariat in writing by KCI members; such proposals and amendments shall be circulated for consideration by all members of the KCI.  
52. No proposal for the rules of procedure shall  be discussed or put forward for a decision 
at any meeting unless copies have been circulated to the KCI members no later than two 
weeks before the meeting.  
XVII.  Overriding authority of the Convention, the Kyoto Protocol 
and the Paris Agreement  
53. In the event of a conflict between any provision of these rules and any provision of 
the Convention, the Kyoto Protocol or the Paris Agreement, the provision of the Convention, 
the Kyoto Protocol or the Paris Agreement shall take precedence.  
Document information  
Version  Description  
Version 2  Revision of paragraph 7 and addition of paragraph 11  
Version 1  Adopted by decisions 4/CP.25, 4/CMA.15 and 
4/CMA.2  
12th plenary meeting  
13 November 2021FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
52  Decision 24/CMA.3  
Rules of procedure of the committee to facilitate 
implementation and promote compliance referred to in 
Article 15, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement ,  
  Recalling Article 15 of the Paris Agreement and decision 1/CP.21, paragraphs  102–
103, 
  Also recalling the modalities and procedures for the effe ctive operation of the 
committee to facilitate implementation and promote compliance referred to in Article 15, 
paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement  (hereinafter referred to as the Committee)  as contained 
in the annex to decision 20/CMA.1, in particular par agraphs 17 –18,  
 Welcoming the annual reports of the  Committee to the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement for 2020 and 2021,1 
  Noting with appreciation the work undertaken by the Committee to date,   
1. Adopts  the rules of procedure related to the institutional arrangements of the 
committee to facilitate implementation and promote compliance referred to in Article 15, 
paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement (hereinafter referred to as the Committee) as contai ned 
in the annex,2 in accordance with paragraphs 17 –18 of the annex to decision 20/CMA.1,  for 
its effective operation;  
2. Invites  the Committee to continue and accelerate its work with urgency on its 
remaining rules of procedure in accordance with paragraphs  17–18 of the annex to decision 
20/CMA.1, recognizing the challenges the Committee has faced in completing its work owing to the coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic, with a view to recommending them  for 
consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Par ties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Paris Agreement at its fourth session (November 2022) ; 
3. Encourages  the Committee to make efforts to start its work on receiving information 
from the secretariat in relation to the submission of reports and c ommunications from Parties 
according to its mandate under decision 20/CMA.1.  
 
 1 FCCC/PA/CMA/2020/1 and FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/6.  
 2 Rule 3.3 of the rules of procedure is to be applied to members and alternate members of the 
Committee in a manner that respects their duties and conduct as civil servants, as applicable, and the 
Code of Ethics  for elected and appointed officers (available at 
https://unfccc.int/sites/default/files/resource/Code%20of%20Ethics%20for%  
20elected%20and%20appointed%20officers.pdf ), as endorsed by the Bureau of the Conference of the 
Parties on 30 November 2018, is subject to further consideration and adoption by the governing 
bodies.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
 53 Annex  
Rules of procedure of the committee to facilitate 
implementation and promote compliance referred to in 
Article 15, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement  
I. Rule 1 : Objective and scope  
1. The objective of these rules of procedure is to facilitate implementation of and 
promote compliance with the provisi ons of the Paris Agreement.  
2. These rules of procedure shall apply to the c ommittee to facilitate implementation and 
promote compliance referred to in Article 15, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement 
(hereinafter referred to as the Committee), as defined in the annex to decision 20/CMA.1, 
entitled “Modalities and procedures for the effective operation of the committee referred to in Article 15, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement” ( hereinafter referred to as the m odalities 
and procedures). These rules of proce dure shall be read together with and in furtherance of 
the modalities and p rocedures and will be implemented to reflect all provisions of the Paris 
Agreement, including its Article 2.  
II. Rule 2 : Definitions 
(placeholder)  
III. Rule 3 : Members and alternate members  
A. Rule 3.1: T erm of service  
1. The term of service of each member and alternate member shall begin on 1 January 
of the calendar year immediately following their election and end on 31 December of the last year of th eir term.  
2. For each new term , pursuant to paragraphs 5 and 8 of the modalities and procedures , 
the selection and notification to the secretariat of a member or alternate member shall be made by the nominating regional group or constituency , as applicable, for election by the 
Conference of the Parties s erving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement ( CMA ). 
3. When a member or alternate member resigns or is otherwise unable to complete the 
assigned term or functions, an expert from the same Party shall be named by that Party to replace that member or alternate member for the remainder of the term. That Party may also, after consultation with its regional group or constituency,  as applicable, name an expert from 
another Party in  the same regional group or constituency , as applicable, to replace the  
member or alternate member. The Party shall notify the secretariat, in writing, of the name and contact details of the nominated member or alternate member, which will be subsequently communicated to the Committee by the secretariat.  
4. If a member or altern ate member is temporarily unable to serve in the Committee, the 
Committee shall, at the request of that member or alternate member, invite the naming of an expert from the same Party by that Party in consultation with the regional group or constituency,  as applicable, to replace the member or alternate member in an ad interim 
capacity for a period of up to one year from the date of that request.  
B. Rule 3.2:  Role of alternate members  
1. Subject to these rules, alternate members are entitled to participate in the proceedings 
of the Committee, without the right to vote.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
54  2. An alternate member may cast a vote only if acting as the member.  
3. In the absence of a member from all or part of a meeting of the Committee, their 
alternate shall act as the member . 
4. If a member’s seat is vacant, or a member resigns or is otherwise unable to complete 
their assigned term or functions, their alternate shall act as the member of the Committee, ad 
interim, until the member is formally elected or replaced in accordance with paragraph 9 of the modalities and procedures and rule 3.1.3 above.  
C. Rule 3.3: D uties and conduct  
1. Members and alternate members shall perform any duties and exercise any authority 
in an honourable, independent, impartial and conscientious manner, abiding by the Code of Conduct for UNFCCC conferences, meeting and events
1 and the Code of Ethics for elected 
and appointed officers,2 including amended, revised and replaced versions of the same, which 
would be applicable mutatis mutandis to the Committee.  
2. Members and alternate members of the Committee shall respect the obligation to 
preserve the confidentiality of information received in confidence or identified as such by the Committee, in accordance with paragraph 14 of the modalities and procedures.  
3. At the beginning of their service, each member and alternate member shall confirm, 
in writing, that they will perform their duties and exercise their authority honourably, independently, impartially and conscientiously and declare, subject to their re sponsibilities 
within the Committee, that they will not disclose, even after the termination of their functions, any information determined by the Committee to be confidential that they have obtained by reason of their duties in the Committee, and shall di sclose immediately any interest in any 
matter under discussion before the Committee that may constitute a real or apparent, personal or financial conflict of interest or that might be incompatible with the objectivity, independence and impartiality expected of a member or alternate member of the Committee and shall refrain from participating in the work of the Committee in relation to such matter.  
D. Rule 3.4: Conflict of interest  
1. Members and alternate members must promptly disclose and recuse themselves from 
any deliberations or decision -making where their personal or financial interests may be 
affected, in order to avoid a conflict of interest or the appearance of one.  
IV. Rule 4 : Election, roles and functions of the Co-Chairs 
1. The Committee shall elect from among  its members one Co -Chair from a developed 
country Party and one Co- Chair from a developing country Party.  
2. Each Co -Chair shall serve as Co -Chair for the entire three years of their term3 and 
shall serve as Co -Chair during and between Committee meetings.  
3. The Co -Chairs shall coordinate the agreed work of the Committee during and between 
meetings.  
4. If a Co -Chair ceases to be able to carry out their functions, or ceases to be a member, 
a new Co -Chair shall be elected for the remainder of the term.  
 
 1 Available at https://unfccc.int/sites/default/files/resource/Code_of_Conduct_English.pdf . 
 2 Available at 
https://unfccc.int/sites/default/files/resource/Code%20of%20Ethics%20for%20elected%20and%20ap
pointed%20officers.pdf .  
 3 For a  Co-Chair elected in 2020 with a two -year seat on the Committee that term as Co -Chair shall be 
two years.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
 55 5. The Co -Chairs shall share and allocate between themselves responsibility for chairing 
Committee meetings.  
6. If one of the elected Co -Chairs is not able to serve in the capacity of Co- Chair for a 
meeting or in relation to a particular matter, the other Co -Chair shall serv e as Chair. If both 
Co-Chairs are unable to serve in their respective capacities, the Committee shall elect a 
member from among those present to serve as Chair for that meeting or in relation to that 
matter, as applicable.  
7. In carrying out their functions, the Co -Chairs shall be guided by the best interests of 
the Committee, in accordance with paragraph 11 of the modalities and procedures.  
8. The Co -Chairs shall be responsible for opening, conducting, suspending, adjourning 
and closing Committee meetings and fo r dealing with all procedural matters, in accordance 
with paragraphs 15 –16 of the modalities and procedures and these rules of procedure.  
9. The Co -Chairs are responsible for ensuring the observance of these rules of procedure 
and the adopted agenda for each meeting of the Committee.  
10. The Co -Chairs shall rule on points of order and any such determination will be final 
unless a Committee member objects. In that case, the Committee shall consider the course of action to be taken.  
11. The Co -Chairs shall present a draft report on each meeting, containing, inter alia, the 
decisions taken at the meeting, for consideration and approval by the Committee.  
12. The Co -Chairs may represent the Committee at external meetings and report back to 
the Committee on those me etings. They may agree to delegate that function to other members 
or alternate members.  
13. The Co -Chairs shall carry out any other functions assigned to them through these rules 
of procedure or a decision of the Committee.  
V. Rule 5 : Dates, notice and location of meetings  
1. In accordance with paragraph 12 of the modalities and procedures, the Committee 
shall meet at least twice every year. At the first Committee meeting of each calendar year, the Co -Chairs shall propose a schedule of meetings for that calendar year  taking into account 
the desirability of holding meetings in conjunction with sessions of the subsidiary bodies serving the Paris Agreement, as appropriate.  
2. At each meeting, the Committee will confirm the dates, duration and venue of the 
following meeting.  
3. If changes to the schedule or additional meetings are required, the Co- Chairs shall, 
after consultation with the Committee, request the secretariat to give notice of any changes in the dates of scheduled meetings and/or of the dates of additional meetings  to members and 
alternate members, and, to the extent possible, notice of a meeting shall be given at least four 
weeks before the opening of that meeting.  
4. The Committee shall endeavour to hold its meetings in Bonn, as appropriate, and may 
consider holding meetings virtually on an exceptional basis and when required to advance its 
work, as proposed by the Co- Chairs after consultation with the Committee.  
5. In arranging virtual meetings, the Committee shall pay particular attention to the 
working modalities of s uch meetings, including the fair and balanced choice of time zones 
of members and alternates members, with the aim of ensuring inclusive and effective participation of all members and alternate members.  
6. The secretariat shall notify members and alternate me mbers of the date, duration and 
venue of the meetings and circulate the agenda for the meeting at least five weeks before the opening of the meeting.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
56  VI. Rule 6 : Development, transmission and adoption of  meeting  
agenda s 
1. The Co -Chairs, assisted by the secretari at, shall draft the provisional agenda for each 
meeting of the Committee and transmit it to the Committee no less than five weeks before 
the opening of the meeting.  
2. The provisional agenda for each meeting shall include, as appropriate:  
(a) Items in accordance with the functions of the Committee as provided in Article 
15 of the Paris Agreement, the modalities and procedures and these rules of procedure;  
(b) Items in accordance with the agreed outcomes of the previous meeting of the 
Committee;  
(c) Items in accordance wit h paragraph 6 of this rule;  
(d) Items in accordance with the workplan of the Committee and the arrangements 
for the subsequent meeting(s) of the Committee;  
(e) Items proposed by any member or alternate member subject to paragraph 3 of 
this rule; 
(f) A standing agenda item on budget and finance;  
(g) A standing agenda item on information from the secretariat in relation to the 
submission of reports and communications from Parties to guide the Committee in its functions in accordance with paragraphs 20, 22(a –b) and 32 –34 of t he modalities and 
procedures.  
3. Additions or changes to the provisional agenda for a meeting may be proposed to the 
Co-Chairs and the secretariat by any member or alternate member and will be incorporated 
into the provisional agenda provided that the member or alternate member gives notice thereof to the Co- Chairs and the secretariat within one week after the transmission of the 
provisional agenda.  
4. The agenda shall be proposed for adoption by the Committee at the beginning of each 
meeting.  
5. Prior to the adopti on of the agenda at a meeting, the Committee may, by consensus, 
decide to add items to, delete items from, or defer or amend items in the provisional agenda for that meeting or the provisional agenda for the subsequent meeting, as appropriate.  
6. Any item on the agenda the consideration of which has not been completed at the 
meeting shall be included in the provisional agenda for the subsequent meeting, unless 
otherwise decided by the Committee.  
VII. Rule 7 : Documentation  
1. Documentation for meetings of the Commit tee shall be made available to the 
Committee at least four weeks before the meeting.  
2. The provisional agenda, the adopted meeting report and any other documentation as 
agreed by the Committee, as appropriate, shall be made publicly available on the UNFCCC 
website, subject to the confidentiality requirements set out in paragraph 14 of the modalities 
and procedures.  
3. The Committee may use electronic means of communication for the transmission and 
sharing of documentation, without prejudice to other means of com munication, as 
appropriate.  
4. The secretariat shall ensure that a secure and dedicated web interface is established 
and maintained to facilitate the work of the Committee.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
 57 VIII.  Rule 8 : Quorum  
1. A quorum shall be established, in accordance with paragraph 15 of the m odalities and 
procedures, prior to the commencement of the meeting, taking into account that in the 
absence of a member from all or part of a meeting of the Committee their alternate shall act as the member.  
2. A quorum shall be confirmed immediately prior to  the adoption of any decision, taking 
into account that an alternate member may cast a vote only if acting as the member.  
3. A member or alternate member may ask for a confirmation of quorum prior to the 
commencement of the meeting or prior to the adoption of  any decision by the Committee.  
IX. Rule 9 : Decision -making and voting in accordance with 
paragraph 16 of the m odalities and procedures  
1. The Committee shall make every effort to reach agreement by consensus. When 
proposing a draft decision for adoption, the Co- Chairs shall ascertain whether consensus has 
been reached.  
2. Efforts by the Co -Chairs to facilitate the reaching of consensus may include:  
(a) Consulting with members and alternates on draft documents, including draft 
decisions, prior to the meeting;  
(b) Consulting with members and alternates on the relevant matter during the 
meeting;  
(c) Providing the opportunity for members to state and/or formally record in the 
report on the relevant meeting their reservations regarding a particular decision without 
preventing consensus from being reached.  
3. The Co -Chairs, acting together and in good faith, and following consultations with all 
members and alternate members, shall determine whether all efforts at reaching consensus in 
respect of a particular draft decision have been exha usted.  
4. In making such a determination the Co- Chairs shall take into consideration:  
(a) Whether consultations on the relevant matter have occurred during and/or 
between meetings, including between the Co -Chairs, without consensus being reached;  
(b) Whether the subj ect matter of the draft decision has been considered at prior 
meetings without consensus being reached;  
(c) Whether and how many members have indicated that they cannot join 
consensus on an issue.  
5. If all efforts at reaching consensus have been exhausted, as a last resort, the following 
voting procedures shall apply:  
(a) Prior to any votes being cast, the Co- Chairs shall provide a final draft decision 
to each member. Such a draft decision shall be the version of the decision that, in the Co -
Chairs’ judgment, was supported by the greatest number of members;  
(b) The Co -Chairs re tain their right to vote;  
(c) Each member shall have one vote;  
(d) A decision that is voted in favour of by at least three quarters of members 
present and voting shall be considered adopted.  
6. For the purpose of this rule, the phrase “members present and voting” mea ns members 
and alternate members acting as members present at the meeting at which voting takes place and casting an affirmative or negative vote. Members abstaining from voting shall be considered as not voting for the purpose of determining the three -quarters majority.  FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
58  7. The Committee may, in writing using electronic means, take decisions between 
meetings for procedural matters or for matters for which it has during a meeting agreed such 
decisions are needed.  
8. In accordance with paragraph 7 of this rule, rul e 3.2 above and paragraphs 15 –16 of 
the modalities and procedures, the Co- Chairs will circulate a proposed written decision for 
adoption on a no- objection basis within three weeks, after which the proposed written 
decision will be deemed adopted, unless there is an objection. If an objection is received, the 
Co-Chairs will work through the objection with the member or alternate member acting for 
the member, as ascertained by the Co -Chairs. If the objecting member or alternate member 
acting for a member upholds their objection, the proposed written decision will be considered 
by the Committee at the following meeting. If the objection is withdrawn or resolved without altering the text of the decision, the decision will be deemed adopted. The secretariat shall  
circulate to the Committee all written comments and objections.  
9. Decisions adopted by the Committee shall be included in the report on the meeting 
and those decisions adopted pursuant to a vote shall include an indication of the final tally of votes together with any comments from dissenting members. Decisions approved between meetings shall be recorded in the report on the following Committee meeting.  
10. Decisions of the Committee shall be reasoned and in writing.  
X. Rule 10 : Expert advice and information in acc ordance with 
paragraphs 25(c) and 35 of the modalities and procedures  
1. In accordance with paragraph 35 of the modalities and procedures, the Co- Chairs, at 
the request of the Committee, may, in the course of its work, seek expert advice and information on behalf of the Committee, and may seek and receive information from processes, bodies, arrangements and forums under and serving the Paris Agreement, including, as appropriate and in consultation with the Party concerned, by inviting representatives of those  relevant bodies and making arrangements for them to participate in 
its relevant meetings.  
2. When seeking such expert advice and information, the Committee should, as 
appropriate, take into account the expertise and experience from the region of the Party concerned, and may invite expert advice from the Party concerned.  
3. The Committee may , in due course, develop working arrangements on expert advice , 
as appropriate.  
XI. Rule 11 : Languages 
1. The working language of the Committee shall be English.  
2. The parts of the me eting of the Committee that are of particular relevance to a Party 
concerned and open to that Party shall be translated into one of the other five official languages of the United Nations by the secretariat at the request of the Party, subject to the avail ability of dedicated resources.  
3. A representative of a Party concerned may engage with the Committee in the language 
of their choice provided that the Party arranges for the interpretation of the communication, 
whether written or oral, into English.  
4. Submiss ions from Parties should be made in English. Submissions may be made in 
one of the other five official languages of the United Nations if the Party also provides a translation into English.  
XII. Rule 12 : Observers  
1. Meetings of the Committee shall be open to Parties and admitted non -Party observers 
to observe, subject to paragraphs 13– 14 of the modalities and procedures, unless the FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
 59 Committee decides to hold the meeting or a part  or parts thereof in a closed session in order 
to, inter alia, protect the confidentiality of information received in confidence in accordance 
with paragraph 14 of the modalities and procedures. Such a decision by the Committee may be taken on a case- by-case basis at any time before or during a meeting.  
2. The secretariat shall inform the Committee before the meeting of any requests to 
attend the meeting received from non -Party observers admitted to the UNFCCC process.  
3. Admitted non -Party observers shall abide by the guidelines for the participation of 
representatives of non -governmental organizations at meetings of UNFCCC bodies
4 and the 
Code of Conduct for UNFCCC conferences, meeting and events, including amended, revised 
and replaced versions of the same, which would be applied mutatis mutandis to the 
Committee.  
4. Parties and admitted non- Party observers shall leave the meeting if  the Committee 
decides to hold a part of the meeting in a closed session.  
5. The parts of the meeting that are open to observers shall be recorded and the recording 
made available on the UNFCCC website after the meeting, unless the Committee decides otherwise . 
6. If, in the course of a meeting, a member or alternate member believes that an observer 
has violated paragraph 3 of this rule, it may request the Co- Chairs to immediately consult the 
Committee on this issue in a closed session. If, following the consultat ions, the Co- Chairs 
find in favour of the member or alternate member concerned, the observer concerned shall leave the meeting. If the member or alternate member concerned objects to the finding of the Co-Chairs, the Committee shall consider the course of action to be taken.  
XIII.  Rule 13 : Secretariat  
1. The secretariat shall support and facilitate the work of the Committee, subject to the 
availability of resources.  
2. Subject to paragraph 1 of this rule, the secretariat shall:  
(a) Make the necessary arrangements for the meetings of the Committee, including 
preparing provisional agendas in consultation with the Co- Chairs, announcing meetings, 
issuing invitations and making available the documents for the meetings;  
(b) Maintain meeting records and arrange for the storage and pr eservation of 
meeting documents;  
(c) Make documents available to the public in accordance with rule 7 above and 
paragraph 14 of the modalities and procedures, unless otherwise determined by the 
Committee;  
(d) Perform any other functions requested by the Committee,  consistently with any 
relevant decisions of the CMA;  
(e) Arrange for interpretation at the meeting, as may be required under rule 11.2 above.  
XIV. Rule 14 : Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of 
the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
1. Pursuant to Article 15 of the Paris Agreement, the Committee shall report annually to 
the CMA and may receive guidance from the CMA.  
2. The annual report of the Committee to the CMA shall be made publicly available and 
shall include information on any decision adopted by the Com mittee, unless otherwise 
decided in accordance with these rules of procedure, and systemic issues identified by the 
 
 4 Available at https://unfccc.int/sites/default/f iles/guidelines_ for_the_participation_of_ngos.pdf . FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
60  Committee, as relevant and appropriate, on the implementation of and compliance with the 
provisions of the Paris Agreement.  
3. The Committee m ay propose amendments to these rules of procedure for 
consideration and adoption by the CMA.  
10th plenary meeting  
11 November 2021FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/10/Add.3  
 61 Resolution 1/CMA.3  
Expression of gratitude to the Government of the United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the 
people of the city of Glasgow  
  Resolution submitted by the Arab Republic of Egypt  
The Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement , 
Having met in Glasgow  from 31 October  to 13 November 2021 , 
1. Express their profound gratitude to the Government of the United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland for having made it possible for the twenty- sixth session of the 
Conference of the Parties, the sixteenth session of the Conference of the Part ies serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the third session of the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement to be held in Glasgow;  
2. Request the Government of the United Kingdom of Great  Britain and Northern Ireland 
to convey to the city and people of Glasgow  the gratitude of the Conference of the Parties, 
the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of the Parties serving as  the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement for 
the hospitality and warmth extended to the participants.  
12
th plenary meeting  
13 November 2021  
      
GE.16 -01211(E)  
*1601211*   
 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting  
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  
  Report of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol on its eleventh 
session, held in Paris from 30 November to 13 December 2015  
Addendum  
  Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at 
its eleventh session  
Contents  
  Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  
Decision  Page  
  1/CMP.11  Report of the Adaptation Fund Board  ................................ ................................ ........   2 
  2/CMP.11  Clarification of the text in section G (Article 3, paragraph 7 ter) of the Doha  
Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol  ................................ ................................ ............   4 
  3/CMP.11  Implications of the implementation of decisions 2/CMP.7 to 4/CMP.7 and  
1/CMP.8 on the previous decisions on method ological issues related to the  
Kyoto Protocol, including those relating to Articles 5, 7 and 8 of the Kyoto  
Protocol, part I: implications related to accounting and reporting and other  
related issues  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..............   5 
  4/CMP.11  Implications of the implementation of d ecisions 2/CMP.7 to 4/CMP.7 and  
1/CMP.8 on the previous decisions on methodological issues related to the  
Kyoto Protocol , including those relating to Articles 5, 7 and 8 of the Kyoto  
Protocol, part II: implications related to review and adjustments and other  
related issues  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..............   30 
  5/CMP.11  Training programme for members of expert review teams participating in  
annual reviews under Article 8 of the Kyoto Protocol  ................................ ...............   57  United Nations  FCCC /KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 
 
  
Distr.: General  
29 January 2016  
 
Original: English  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
2  Decision 1/CMP.11  
  Report of the Adaptation Fund Board  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Recalling decision  2/CMP.10, paragraph 4,  
Welcoming  the annual report of the Adaptation Fund Board,1 
Noting the limited resources in the Adaptation Fund given the  current prices of 
certified emission reductions, which affect its ability to fulfil its mandate,  
1. Welcomes  the financial pledges and contribution s made to the Adaptation Fund by 
the Governments of Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Sweden and the Walloon Region of 
Belgium, amounting to USD 77 million;  
2. Also welcomes  the adoption by the Executive Directors of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and D evelopment (the World Bank) of the amendments to the terms and 
conditions of services to be provided by the World Bank as trustee for the Adaptation Fund 
on an interim basis;2 
3. Notes  that, as at 30 June 2015, a total of USD 1.8 million in pledged contributi ons to 
the Adaptation Fund was outstanding;  
4. Also notes  the following information, actions and decisions relating to the 
Adaptation Fund contained in the report of the Adaptation Fund Board3 and the oral report 
made by the Chair of the Adaptation Fund Board  in December 2015:  
(a) The approval of the second phase of the readiness programme for direct 
access to climate finance, launched on 1 July 2015, and the approval of South –South 
cooperation grants for Burundi, Cabo Verde, Chad and Niger, totalling USD 244,447;  
(b) The approval of a pilot programme for regional projects/programmes;  
(c) Cumulative project and programme approvals reaching USD 318.6 million as 
at 30 June 2015;  
(d) Funds available for new funding approvals amounting to USD 129.9 million 
as at 30 June 2015;  
(e) The approval of 14 project/programme proposals, totalling USD 92.4 million, 
submitted by implementing entities, including 9 proposals submitted by national 
implementing entities totalling USD 54.1 million;  
(f) The cumulative receipts of USD 483.3 million into the  Adaptation Fund 
Trust Fund;  
(g) The approval of a streamlined accreditation process for small -sized entities 
with limited experience in managing projects worth more than USD 1 million;  
(h) Ongoing discussion on linkages between the Adaptation Fund and the Green 
Climate Fund;  
                                                           
 1 FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/2.  
 2 Decision 1/CMP.10, annex.  
 3  As footnote 1 above.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 3 (i) The accreditation of 20 national implementing entities that can access 
resources from the Adaptation Fund directly, including 3 entities accredited during the 
reporting period, and the accreditation of 5 regional implementing entities, includi ng 1 
accredited during the reporting period;  
5. Requests  the Adaptation Fund Board to continue its efforts to simplify accreditation 
procedures for national implementing entities and to report back on its progress to the 
Conference of the Parties serving as t he meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at its 
twelfth session (November 2016);  
6. Urges  the developed country Parties that responded to the fundraising target of the 
Adaptation Fund Board but have not yet made financial contributions to do so at thei r 
earliest opportunity;  
7. Encourages the provision of voluntary support that is additional to the share of 
proceeds from clean development mechanism project activities in order to support the 
resource mobilization efforts of the Adaptation Fund Board, with a  view to strengthening 
the Adaptation Fund;   
8. Recommends that the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties 
to the Paris Agreement, at its first session, consider that the Adaptation Fund may serve the 
Paris Agreement, in accordance wi th paragraphs 60 and 61 of decision 1/CP.21;   
9. Invites  the Conference of the Parties, at its twenty -second session (November 2016), 
to request the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris Agreement to undertake the necessary 
preparatory work concerning the issue r eferred to in paragraph 8 above and to forward a 
recommendation to the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to 
the Kyoto Protocol for its consideration and adoption no later than at its fifteenth session 
(November 2019);  
10. Notes with appreciation  the efforts of the Adaptation Fund Board secretariat to 
organize workshops for national implementing entities;  
11. Requests  the Adaptation Fund Board to provide in its reports to the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Par ties to the Kyoto Protocol further information 
on the status of the portfolio of the Adaptation Fund, including projects at different stages 
of development.  
9th plenary meeting  
13 December 2015FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
4  Decision 2/CMP.11  
  Clarification of the text in section G (Article 3, paragraph 7 
ter) of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol  
 The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeti ng of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
 Recalling  Article 3, paragraph 7 ter, of the Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol 
contained in annex I to decision 1/CMP.8 (the Doha Amendment),  
 Taking note  of the request from Kazakhstan to clarify the provision of Ar ticle 3, 
paragraph 7 ter, of the Doha Amendment,  
1. Clarifies  that Article 3, paragraph 7 ter, of the Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol 
contained in annex I to decision 1/CMP.8 (the Doha Amendment) is applicable, for the 
second commitment period, to Parties tha t did not have a quantified emission limitation or 
reduction commitment during the first commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol;  
2. Also clarifies that, for the purpose of implementing Article 3, paragraph 7 ter, of the 
Doha Amendment, the reference in Artic le 3, paragraph 7 ter, of the Doha Amendment to 
“average annual emissions for the first three years of the preceding commitment period” 
refers to the average of the annual emissions of a Party for the years 2008, 2009 and 2010, 
and that Parties with a quan tified emission limitation or reduction commitment inscribed in 
the third column of Annex B to the Kyoto Protocol contained in annex I to decision 
1/CMP.8 shall clarify, in their reports to facilitate the calculation of the assigned amount 
submitted pursua nt to decision 2/CMP.8, whether they have used, in the calculation of the 
average annual emissions for the first three years of the preceding commitment period:  
(a) The gases and sources listed in Annex A to the Kyoto Protocol; or  
(b) The same greenhouse gases, sectors and source categories as those used to 
calculate the assigned amount for the second commitment period;  
3. Decides  that, for a Party included in Annex I undergoing the process of transition to 
a market economy and without a quantified emission limitati on or reduction commitment in 
the first commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol, the positive difference between the total 
emissions during the second commitment period and the assigned amount adjusted in 
accordance with Article 3, paragraph 7 ter, of the Doha Amendment shall be added to the 
quantity of assigned amount units to be taken into account for the purpose of the 
assessment referred to in decision 13/CMP.1, annex, paragraph 14, and that the added 
quantity shall be limited to the quantity of assigne d amount units cancelled by that Party for 
the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol, in accordance with Article 3, 
paragraph 7 ter, of the Doha Amendment.  
8th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015  
 FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 5 Decision 3/CMP.11  
  Implications of the implementation of decisions 2/CMP.7 to 
4/CMP.7 and 1/CMP.8 on the previous decisions on 
methodological issues related to the Kyoto Protocol, 
including those relating to Articles 5, 7 and 8 of the Kyoto 
Protocol, part I: implications related to accounting and 
reporting and other related issues  
 The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Part ies to the 
Kyoto  Protocol , 
 Recalling  Articles 5, 7 and 8 of the Kyoto Protocol,  
 Also recalling  decisions 2/CMP.6, 2/CMP.7, 3/CMP.7, 4/CMP.7, 1/CMP.8 and 
2/CMP.8,  
 Being aware  of decisions 11/CMP.1, 13/CMP.1, 15/CMP.1, 16/CMP.1, 18/CMP.1, 
19/CMP.1 and 27/CMP.1,  
1. Decides  that, for the purpose of the second commitment period of the Kyoto 
Protocol and pending the entry into force of the Doha Amendment, contained in annex I to  
decis ion 1/CMP.8, any references in this decision and decision 2/CMP.8 to Annex A, 
Annex B, Article 3, paragraphs 1 bis, 1 ter, 1 quater, 7 bis, 7 ter, 8, 8 bis, 12 bis and 12 ter , 
and Article 4, paragraphs 2 and 3, unless otherwise specified, shall be understood as 
referring to those Articles and annexes as contained in the Doha Amendment, and that, 
upon the entry into force of the Doha Amendment, such references shall be read as 
references to the relevant Articles of the Kyoto Protocol as amended;  
2. Also decides  that, for the purpose of the second commitment period, decisions 
13/CMP.1, 15/CMP.1, 18/CMP.1 and 19/CMP.1 shall apply mutatis mutandis, except 
where otherwise specified in decisions 1/CMP.8 and 2/CMP.8 and in this decision;  
3. Clarifies  that, for the purpose of the second commitment period, unless otherwise 
specified in this decision, any references in decision 13/CMP.1 and in annexes I and II to 
Parties included in Annex I or to Parties shall be understood as referring to Parties included 
in Annex I with commitments inscribed in the third column of Annex B;  
4. Also clarifies  that, for the purpose of the second commitment period, unless 
otherwise specified in this decision, any ref erences in decision 13/CMP.1 and in annexes I 
and II to Parties included in Annex I or to Parties are not applicable to the Parties included 
in Annex I without quantified emission limitation and reduction commitments for the 
second commitment period;  
5. Deci des that, for the purpose of the second commitment period, the following 
changes shall apply to decisions 13/CMP.1 and 15/CMP.1:  
(a) All references to Article 3, paragraph 1, shall be read as references to Article 
3, paragraph 1 bis, except those in paragr aphs 12(e) and 47(h) of the annex to decision 
13/CMP.1;  
(b) All references to Article 3, paragraphs 7 and 8, shall be read as references to 
Article 3, paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 8 bis, except that in paragraph 4 of decision 13/CMP.1;  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
6  (c) All references to the  first commitment period shall be read as references to 
the second commitment period, except that in paragraph 3(e) of decision 15/CMP.1;  
(d) All references to activities under Article 3, paragraph 3, and elected activities 
under Article 3, paragraph 4, sh all be read as references to activities under Article 3, 
paragraph 3, forest management under Article 3, paragraph 4, and any elected activities 
under Article 3, paragraph 4;  
(e) All references to the Revised 1996 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse 
Gas Inventories  or to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Good Practice 
Guidance and Uncertainty Management in National Greenhouse Gas Inventories  in 
decision 15/CMP.1 shall be read as references to the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National 
Greenhouse Gas Inventories  (hereinafter referred to as the 2006 IPCC Guidelines), as 
implemented through the “Guidelines for the preparation of national communications by 
Parties included in Annex I to the Convention, Part I: UNFCCC reporting guidelines on 
annual gre enhouse gas inventories” and the 2013 Revised Supplementary Methods and 
Good Practice Guidance Arising from the Kyoto Protocol. References to chapter 7 of the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change  Good Practice Guidance and Uncertainty 
Management in Na tional Greenhouse Gas Inventories  shall be read as references to chapter 
4 of volume 1 of the 2006 IPCC Guidelines;  
(f) All references to decision 16/CMP.1 shall be read as references to decision 
2/CMP.7 and 6/CMP.9;  
6. Also decides  that, for the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 3(b) 
of decision 15/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following paragraph:  
 3(b) The Party concerned has failed to include an estimate for an Annex A source 
category (as defined in chapter 4 of volume I of the 2006 IPCC  Guidelines) that 
individually accounted for 7 per cent or more of the Party’s aggregate emissions, 
defined as the aggregate submitted emissions of the gases and from the sources 
listed in Annex A to the Kyoto Protocol, in the most recent of the Party’s re viewed 
inventories in which the source was estimated;  
7. Further decides  that decisions 14/CMP.1, 17/CMP.1 and 6/CMP.3 shall not apply 
for the purpose of the second commitment period;  
8. Decides  that Parties included in Annex I without quantified emission limit ation and 
reduction commitments for the second commitment period shall provide information on 
which voluntary activities under Article 3, paragraph 4, of the Kyoto Protocol they will 
include in their reporting, at the latest in their 2016 annual inventory submission;  
9. Adopts  the revisions to the modalities for the accounting of assigned amounts under 
Article 7, paragraph 4, of the Kyoto Protocol1 as set out in annex I;  
10. Recalls  that, pursuant to Article 4 of the Kyoto Protocol, each Party to an agreement 
to fulfil their commitments under Article  3 of the Kyoto Protocol shall jointly, in the event 
that the aggregate anthropogenic carbon dioxide equivalent emissions of the greenhouse 
gases listed in Annex A of the Parties to that agreement exceed their assigned amounts, be 
responsible for its own level of emissions as set out in that agreement;  
11. Decides that each of the Parties included in Annex I that have reached an agreement 
to fulfil their  commitments under Article 3 of the Kyoto Protocol jointly, in accordance 
with Article 4 of the Kyoto Protocol, shall  clarify in their reports, so as to facilitate the 
calculation of the assigned amount submitted pursuant to decision 2/CMP.8, how the 
infor mation listed in annex I to that decision, the application of Article 3, paragraph 7 ter, 
                                                           
 1 Decision 13/CMP.1, annex.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 7 including its technical implementation, and chapter VI of decision 1/CMP.8 are determined. 
Such clarification shall describe, in detail, methodologies and, if applica ble, any relevant 
assumptions applied by those Parties  for their joint fulfilment in relation to:  
(a) The application of paragraphs 23 –26 of decision 1/CMP.8;  
(b) The calculation of base year emissions in accordance with Article 3, 
paragraphs 5, 7 bis, 8  and 8 bis;  
(c) The calculation of those Parties’ assigned amounts in accordance with Article 
3, paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 8 bis, and the respective emission level allocated to each of the 
Parties as set out in the agreement pursuant to Article 4, paragraph 1;  
(d) The calculation of those Parties’ commitment period reserves in accordance 
with decision 11/CMP.1, decision 1/CMP.8, paragraph 18, and this decision;  
(e) The application and calculation pursuant to paragraph 13 in the annex of 
decision 2/CMP.7;  
12. Adopts the standard electronic format for reporting Kyoto Protocol units and the 
reporting instructions for the second commitment period contained in annex II for reporting 
in accordance with paragraph 11 of the annex to decision 15/CMP.1;  
13. Decides that each P arty included in Annex I with a quantified emission limitation or 
reduction commitment inscribed in the third column of Annex B shall annually report 
tables in a standard electronic format to the secretariat electronically; that any related 
information of a non -quantitative nature shall be submitted separately; and that, unless 
otherwise indicated, Parties shall submit information for the previous calendar year (based 
on Universal Coordinated Time), which is referred to as the “reported year” (e.g. in the 
2017 standard electronic format submission, the “reported year” will be the 2016 calendar 
year);  
14. Also decides  that a Party included in Annex I without a quantified emission 
limitation or reduction commitment inscribed in the third column of Annex B shall 
continue to provide relevant information on its national registry, or changes thereto, 
including information on the units in its registry, by submitting the standard electronic 
format tables in conjunction with its annual inventory submission for the second 
commitment period, in accordance with decisions 13/CMP.1 and 15/CMP.1 and annex I to 
this decision, if its registry is connected to the international transaction log at any time 
during the relevant calendar year;  
15. Further decides  that, for the second commit ment period, each Party included in 
Annex I with a quantified emission limitation or reduction commitment inscribed in the 
third column of Annex B shall submit its first standard electronic format for reporting 
Kyoto Protocol units for the second commitmen t period in conjunction with its first annual 
inventory submission for that commitment period, in accordance with paragraph 5 of 
decision 2/CMP.8;  
16. Decides that the contribution of assigned amount units as a share of proceeds shall 
be executed in the most t ransparent manner, taking into account environmental integrity at 
the international level;  
17. Also decides  that, where a Party included in Annex I undertakes a corrective 
transaction to reflect a correction to the compilation and accounting database applied b y the 
Compliance Committee, pursuant to chapter V, paragraph 5(b), of the annex to decision 
27/CMP.1, the information in the compilation and accounting database shall be 
appropriately amended to avoid double counting, following the review of the corrective  
transaction in accordance with Article 8 of the Kyoto Protocol and the resolution of any 
questions of implementation;  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
8  18. Further decides to extend the code of practice for the treatment of confidential 
information for the review of inventories under Article 8 of the Kyoto Protocol to the 
review of information on assigned amounts under Article 8 of the Kyoto Protocol;  
19. Requests  the administrator of the international transaction log to develop an 
application to facilitate the submission of the standard electroni c format referred to in 
paragraph 12 above and to report on progress made in the development and testing of that 
application in its next annual report;  
20. Adopts  the revisions to the “Guidelines for the preparation of the information 
required under Article 7 of the Kyoto Protocol”2 for the second commitment period 
contained in annex III.  
                                                           
 2 Decision 15/CMP.1, annex.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 9 Annex I  
Modalities for the accounting of  assigned amounts under Article 7, 
paragraph 4, of the Kyoto Protocol  
General provisions  
1. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 2 of decision 
13/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following paragraph:  
 2. For the purpose of the second commi tment period, after completion of the 
initial review under Article 8 of the report to facilitate the calculation of the assigned 
amount pursuant to Article 3, paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 8 bis, in accordance with 
paragraphs 2 –4 of decision 2/CMP.8, and in reso lution of any question of 
implementation relating to adjustments under Article 5, paragraph 2, or the assigned 
amount pursuant to Article 3, paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 8 bis, the assigned amount 
pursuant to Article 3, paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 8 bis, of each Pa rty shall be recorded 
in the database for the compilation and accounting of emissions and assigned 
amounts referred to in paragraph 50 of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1, and shall 
remain fixed for the second commitment period.  
I. Modalities  
B. Calculation of the  assigned amounts pursuant to Article 3, paragraphs 
7 bis, 8 and 8 bis1 
2. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 5 of the annex to 
decision 13/CMP.1 shall be replaced with the following paragraph:  
 5. The assigned amount pursuant to Artic le 3, paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 8 bis, for 
the second commitment period, from 2013 to 2020, for each Party included in 
Annex I with a commitment inscribed in the third column of Annex B, shall be equal 
to the percentage inscribed for it in the third column o f Annex B of its aggregate 
anthropogenic carbon dioxide equivalent emissions of greenhouse gases from the 
sources listed in Annex A to the Kyoto Protocol in the base year or period multiplied 
by eight, taking into account the following:  
(a) The base year s hall be 1990 except for those Parties undergoing the process 
of transition to a market economy that have selected a historical base year or period 
other than 1990, in accordance with Article 3, paragraph 5, for those Parties that 
have selected 1995 as the base year for total emissions of hydrofluorocarbons, 
perfluorocarbons and sulphur hexafluoride, in accordance with Article 3, paragraph 
8, and 1995 or 2000 as the base year for total emissions of nitrogen trifluoride, in 
accordance with Article 3, paragrap h 8 bis;  
(b) Those Parties for which land -use change and forestry (all emissions by 
sources and removals by sinks under category 4 of the Guidelines for the 
preparation of national communications by Parties included in Annex I to the 
Convention, Part I: UN FCCC reporting guidelines on annual greenhouse gas 
                                                           
 1 Unless otherwise specified in this annex , hereinafter the section headings in the annex  follow the 
numbering of the corresponding section headings in the annex to decision 13/CMP.1.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
10  inventories  (hereinafter referred to as the UNFCCC Annex I inventory reporting 
guidelines)2 as contained in the common reporting format tables) constituted a net 
source of greenhouse gas emissions in the b ase year or period shall include in their 
emissions during that year or period the aggregate anthropogenic carbon dioxide 
equivalent emissions by sources minus removals by sinks in that year or period from 
land-use change (all emissions by sources minus re movals by sinks reported in 
relation to the conversion of forests (deforestation));  
(c) Those Parties that have reached an agreement in accordance with Article 4 to 
fulfil their commitments under Article 3 jointly shall use the respective emission 
level al located to each of the Parties in that agreement instead of the percentage 
inscribed for it in the third column of Annex B.  
3. Paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1 shall not apply for the 
purpose of the second commitment period.  
4. The followi ng paragraphs and chapter heading shall be inserted after paragraph 8 of 
the annex to decision 13/CMP.1:  
 8 bis.  The report to facilitate the calculation of the assigned amount pursuant to 
Article 3, paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 8 bis, referred to in paragraph 2 of decision 
2/CMP.8 , shall contain the following additional information , in accordance with the 
following subparagraph,  inserted after subparagraph  (m) in annex I to decision 
2/CMP.8:   
(n)  The calculation of the difference between the assigned amount for the 
second commitment period and average annual emissions for the first three 
years of the preceding commitment period multiplied by eight, pursuant to 
Article 3, paragraph 7 ter, and in acco rdance with paragraphs 8 ter and 8 
quater below.  
B bis.  Cancellation pursuant to Article 3, paragraph 7 ter  
 8 ter. The reference to the assigned amount for the second commitment period 
referred to in Article 3, paragraph 7 ter , shall be understood as referring to the 
assigned amount for the second commitment period calculated pursuant to Article 3, 
paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 8 bis.  
 8 quater. For the purpose of Article 3, paragraph 7 ter, the units cancelled shall be 
assigned amou nt units (AAUs) issued by the Party for the second commitment 
period.  
 8 quinquies. Where a Party applies the cancellation pursuant to Article 3, paragraph 
7 ter, the commitment period reserve for the second commitment period under 
paragraph 6 of the annex  to decision 11/CMP.1 for that Party shall not drop below 
90 per cent of eight times its average annual emissions for the first three years of the 
first commitment period, or 100 per cent of eight times its most recently reviewed 
inventory, whichever is lo wer. 
 8 sexies. The reference to assigned amount in decision 1/CMP.8, paragraph 25, for a 
Party that is undergoing the process of transition to a market economy and is not 
fulfilling its commitments under Article 3 jointly, in accordance with Article 4 of the 
Kyoto Protocol, shall be understood as referring to the assigned amount for the 
second commitment period, calculated pursuant to Article 3, paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 
                                                           
 2 Decision 24/CP.19, annex I.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 11 8 bis, adjusted by the number of assigned amount units cancelled in accordance with 
paragraph 23 ter of decision 13/CMP.1 as revised by this decision.  
 8 septies. Any Party that is undergoing the process of transition to a market 
economy and is not fulfilling its commitments under Article 3 jointly, in accordance 
with Article 4 of the Kyoto Protocol, and for which the reference to assigned amount 
in decision 1/CMP.8 is understood as referring to the assigned amount for the 
second commitment period, calculated pursuant to Article 3, paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 
8 bis, and adjusted by the number of assigned amount units cancelled in accordance 
with paragraph 23 ter of decision 13/CMP.1, as revised by this decision in 
accordance with paragraph 8 sexies above, shall not transfer units from its previous 
period surplus reserve account to other previous p eriod surplus reserve accounts and 
may use assigned amount units from its previous period surplus reserve account for 
retirement in accordance with paragraph 25 of decision 1/CMP.8 and paragraph 8 
sexies above.  
C. Recording of the assigned amounts pursuant to  Article 3, paragraphs 7 
bis, 8 and 8 bis  
5. For the purpose of the second commitment period, the following paragraphs shall be 
inserted after paragraphs 9 and 10 of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1, respectively:  
 9 bis.  After initial review under Article 8 an d resolution of any questions of 
implementation relating to adjustments or the calculation of its assigned amount 
pursuant to Article 3, paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 8 bis, any positive difference between 
the assigned amount for the second commitment period for  a Party included in 
Annex I and its average annual emissions for the first three years of the preceding 
commitment period multiplied by eight of each Party shall be recorded in the 
database for the compilation and accounting of emissions and assigned amou nts 
referred to in paragraph 50 of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1.  
 10 bis.  Once recorded in the compilation and accounting database referred to in 
paragraph 50 of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1, the quantity to be cancelled under 
Article 3, paragraph 7 te r, for each Party shall remain fixed for the second 
commitment period.  
D. Additions to, and subtractions from, the assigned amounts pursuant to 
Article  3, paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 8 bis, for the accounting of the 
compliance assessment  
6. For the purpose of the se cond commitment period, the following shall be inserted 
after paragraph 11(d) of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1:  
 11(d) bis.  Any acquisition by a Party of AAUs from previous period surplus 
reserve accounts of other Parties shall be in accordance with deci sion 1/CMP.8.  
7. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 11(f) of the annex to 
decision 13/CMP.1 shall be replaced with the following:  
 11(f)  Carry -over by the Party of emission reduction units (ERUs), certified 
emission reductions (CERs) and/or AAUs from the previous commitment period, in 
accordance with paragraphs 23 –26 of decision 1/CMP.8.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
12  8. For the purpose of the second commitment period, the following subparagraphs shall 
be added after the appropriate subparagraphs of paragraph 12 of the  annex to decision 
13/CMP.1:  
 12(e) bis.  For the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol, cancellation 
by the Party of AAUs under Article 3, paragraphs 1 ter and 1 quater;  
 12(e) ter.  For the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol, cancellat ion 
by the Party of AAUs under Article 3, paragraph 7 ter;  
 12(g)  Transfers by the Party of AAUs from its previous period surplus reserve 
account to the previous period surplus reserve accounts of other Parties in 
accordance with paragraph 26 of decision 1 /CMP.8;  
 12(h)  Transfer by the Party of AAUs from the previous period surplus reserve 
account to the retirement account in accordance with paragraphs 23 –26 of decision 
1/CMP.8;  
 12(i)  Voluntary cancellation by the Party of any units under paragraph 21(e) o f the 
annex to decision 13/CMP.1;  
 12(j)  Cancellation of units that remain after the expiration of the additional period 
for fulfilment commitments and carry -overs under paragraph 36 of the annex to 
decision 13/CMP.1;  
 12(k)  Cancellation of temporary certified emission reductions  (tCERs) by the Party 
after their expiry under paragraph 53 of the annex to decision 5/CMP.1;  
 12(l)  Cancellation of long -term certified emission reductions  (lCERs) by the Party 
after their expiry under paragraph 53 of the annex to decision 5/CMP.1;  
 12(m)  Cancellation by the Party of lCERs  held in holding accounts where there has 
been a reversal of removals by sinks for the project activity concerned under 
paragraph 49 of the annex to decision 5/CMP.1 and paragraph 3 of appendix D to 
decision 5/CMP.1;  
 12(n)  Cancellation by the Party of lCE Rs by the Party held in holding accounts 
where a certification report for the project activity concerned has not been provided 
under paragraph 50 of the annex to decision 5/CMP.1 and paragraph 3 of appendix 
D to decision 5/CMP.1;  
 12(o)  Cancellation of AAU s, CERs, ERUs, removal units (RMUs) and/or tCERs 
for the purpose of replacing tCERs prior to expiry under paragraphs 41 –43 of the 
annex to decision 5/CMP.1;  
 12(p)  Cancellation of AAUs, CERs, ERUs and/or RMUs for the purpose of 
replacing lCERs prior to exp iry under paragraph 47(a) of the annex to decision 
5/CMP.1;  
 12(q)  Cancellation of AAUs, CERs, ERUs, RMUs and/or lCERs from the same 
project activity for the purpose of replacing lCERs where there has been a reversal 
of removals by sinks under paragraph 47 (b) of the annex to decision 5/CMP.1;  
 12(r)  Cancellation of AAUs, CERs, ERUs, RMUs and/or lCERs from the same 
project activity for the purpose of replacing lCERs where a certification report has 
not been provided under paragraph 47(c) of the annex to deci sion 5/CMP.1.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 13 E. Basis for the compliance assessment  
9. For the purpose of the second commitment period, the assessment referred to in 
paragraph 14 of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1 shall be carried out taking into account 
also paragraph 25 of decision 1/CMP.8.  
F. Carry -over  
10. For the purpose of the second commitment period, the following chapter heading 
and paragraphs shall be inserted after paragraph 16 of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1:  
 G. Share of proceeds  
 16 bis.  The share of proceeds pursuant to paragraphs 20 and 21 of decision 1/CMP.8 
shall be calculated in accordance with the following:  
 (a) The quantity of units levied as a share of the proceeds on the issuance of 
CERs from project activities, on the first international transfers of AAUs and on the 
issuance  of ERUs, shall be calculated as 2 per cent of the amount of units issued or 
transferred in each transaction, rounded up to the next higher integer value;  
 (b) The quantity of units levied as a share of the proceeds on the first 
international transfer of AAUs shall be included in the quantity of AAUs 
transferred. The quantity of units levied as a share of the proceeds on the issuance of 
ERUs for Article 6 projects shall be included in the quantities of ERUs issued for 
the project concerned;  
 (c) The transf ers to the Adaptation Fund account pursuant to paragraphs 20 –22 
of decision 1/CMP.8 shall not be subject to the share of proceeds;  
 (d) The first international transfers of units between previous period surplus 
reserve accounts shall not be subject to the share of proceeds;  
 (e) The term “first international transfer” refers to the first external transfer of 
each individual AAU from the originating registry to the registry of another Party, 
tracked by its serial number.  
II. Registry requirements  
A. National regist ries 
11. For the purpose of the second commitment  period, the following shall be inserted 
after paragraph 21(d) of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1:  
 21(d) bis.  One cancellation account for each commitment period for the purpose 
of cancelling AAUs under Article 3, paragraphs 1 ter and 1 quater;  
 21(d) ter.  One cancellation account for the second commitment period for the 
purpose of cancelling AAUs pursuant to Article 3, paragraph 7 ter;  
 21(d) quater.  One previous period surplus reserve account for holdings of AA Us, in 
accordance with paragraphs 23 –26 of decision 1/CMP.8;  
12. For the purpose of the second commitment period, the following shall be inserted 
after paragraph 21(f) of the annex to decision  13/CMP.1:  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
14   21(g)  One cancellation account for voluntary cancellation by the Party of any units 
under paragraph 21(e) of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1;  
 21(h)  One cancellation account for the purpose of cancelling units that remain after 
the expiration of the additional period for fulfilment commitments and car ry-overs 
under paragraph 36 of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1;  
 21(i)  One cancellation account for the purpose of cancellation of tCERs by the 
Party after their expiry under paragraph 53 of the annex to decision 5/CMP.1;  
 21(j)  One cancellation account for  the purpose of cancellation of lCERs by the 
Party after their expiry under paragraph 53 of the annex to decision 5/CMP.1;  
 21(k)  One cancellation account for the purpose of cancellation of lCERs by the 
Party held in holding accounts where there has been a reversal of removals by sinks 
for the project activity concerned under paragraph 49 of the annex to decision 
5/CMP.1 and paragraph 3 of appendix D to decision 5/CMP.1;  
 21(l)  One cancellation account for the purpose of cancellation of lCERs by the 
Party  held in holding accounts where a certification report for the project activity 
concerned has not been provided under paragraph 50 of the annex to decision 
5/CMP.1 and paragraph 3 of appendix D to decision 5/CMP.1;  
 21(m) One replacement account for the pu rpose of cancelling AAUs, CERs, ERUs, 
RMUs and/or tCERs for the purpose of replacing tCERs prior to expiry under 
paragraph 43 of the annex to decision 5/CMP.1;  
 21(n)  One replacement account for the purpose of cancelling AAUs, CERs, ERUs 
and/or RMUs for th e purpose of replacing lCERs prior to expiry under paragraph 
47(a) of the annex to decision 5/CMP.1;  
 21(o)  One replacement account for the purpose of cancelling AAUs, CERs, ERUs, 
RMUs and/or lCERs from the same project activity for the purpose of replacin g 
lCERs where there has been a reversal of removals by sinks under paragraph 47(b) 
of the annex to decision 5/CMP.1;  
 21(p)  One replacement account for the purpose of cancelling AAUs, CERs, ERUs, 
RMUs and/or lCERs from the same project activity for the pur pose of replacing 
lCERs where a certification report has not been provided under paragraph 47(c) of 
the annex to decision 5/CMP.1.  
B. Issuance of emission reduction units, assigned amount units and 
removal units  
13. Paragraph 23 of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1 shall not apply for the second 
commitment period and the following paragraphs  shall be inserted after paragraph 23 of the 
annex to decision 13/CMP.1:  
 23 bis.  For the purpose of the second commitment period, each Party included in 
Annex I shall issue in it s national registry a quantity of AAUs equivalent to the 
assigned amount of that Party pursuant to Article 3, paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 8 bis, 
calculated and reported in accordance with paragraph 5 bis above, and paragraph 3 
of decision 2/CMP.8.  
 23 ter.  For the purpose of the second commitment period, the transfer of units for 
cancellation in accordance with Article 3, paragraph 7 ter shall occur immediately 
upon issuance of the assigned amount units referred to in the previous paragraph.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 15 C. Transfer, acquisiti on, cancellation, retirement and carry -over  
14. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraphs 30, 34 and 36 of the 
annex to decision 13/CMP.1 shall be replaced  by paragraphs 30, 34 and 36 below and 
paragraphs 33 bis and 33 ter shall be inserted a fter paragraph 33 as follows:  
 30. For the purpose of the second commitment period, ERUs, CERs, AAUs and 
RMUs may be transferred between registries in accordance with decisions 3/CMP.1, 
9/CMP.1, 11/CMP.1 and 1/CMP.8, and may be transferred within registrie s. 
 33 bis.  Each Party included in Annex I may cancel AAUs under Article 3, 
paragraphs 1 ter and 1 quater, so they cannot be used in fulfilment of commitments 
under Article 3, paragraph 1 bis, in accordance with paragraph 12(e) bis above, by 
transferring t hem to the appropriate cancellation account in its national registry. 
Legal entities, where authorized by the Party, may also transfer AAUs into the 
cancellation account.  
 33 ter.  Each Party included in Annex I shall cancel AAUs pursuant to Article 3, 
paragraph 7 ter, in accordance with paragraph 12(e) ter above, by transferring them 
to the appropriate cancellation account in its national registry.  
 34. For the purpose of the second commitment period, prior to the end of the 
additional period for fulfillin g commitments, each Party included in Annex I shall 
retire ERUs, CERs, AAUs and/or RMUs valid for that commitment period for use 
towards meeting its commitments under Article 3, paragraph 1 bis, in accordance 
with paragraph 13 of the annex to decision 13/C MP.1 and paragraph 25 of decision 
1/CMP.8 by transferring ERUs, CERs, AAUs and/or RMUs to the retirement 
account for that commitment period in its national registry.  
 36. For the purpose of the second commitment period, each Party included in 
Annex I may c arry over to the subsequent commitment period, in accordance with 
paragraph 15 of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1 and paragraphs 23 –26 of decision 
1/CMP.8, ERUs, CERs and/or AAUs held in its registry that have not been 
cancelled or retired for a commitment period or that are not held in its previous 
period surplus reserve account. Each ERU, CER and/or AAU carried over in this 
manner shall maintain its original serial number and shall be valid in the subsequent 
commitment period. ERUs, CERs, AAUs and RMUs hel d in the national registry of 
a Party that have not been carried over in this manner or retired for the commitment 
period shall be cancelled in accordance with paragraph 12(f) of the annex to decision 
13/CMP.1, once the additional period for fulfilling com mitments has ended.  
D. Transaction procedures  
15. For the purpose of the second commitment period, the following paragraph shall 
replace paragraph 42 of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1:  
 42. Upon receipt of the record, for the second commitment period the transact ion 
log shall conduct an automated check to verify that there is no discrepancy:  
 (a) All transactions: units previously retired or cancelled; units existing in more 
than one registry; units for which a previously identified discrepancy has not been 
resolved; units improperly carried over or improperly transferred to previous period 
surplus reserve accounts; units improperly issued, including those that infringe the 
limits contained in decision 2/CMP.7; and the authorization of legal entities 
involved  to participate in the transaction;  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
16   (b) In the case of transfers between registries: the eligibility of Parties involved 
in the transaction to participate in joint implementation, the clean development 
mechanism and international emissions trading under A rticles 6, 12 and 17 of the 
Kyoto Protocol; infringement of the commitment period reserve of the transferring 
Party; and infringements of the limits to transfer units between previous period 
surplus reserve accounts of different Parties as set out in parag raph 26 of decision 
1/CMP.8;  
 (c) In the case of acquisitions of tCER s and lCER s from land use , land -use 
change and forestry projects under Article 12: infringement of the limits contained 
in decision 2/CMP.7;  
 (d) In the case of a retirement of CERs: the eligibility of the Party in accordance 
with paragraph 14 of decision 1/CMP.8 to use CERs to contribute to its compliance 
under Article 3, paragraph 1 bis.  
E. Publicly accessible information  
16. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 45(e) of t he annex to 
decision 13/CMP.1 shall not apply.  
17. For the purpose of the second commitment period, the following shall be added after 
the respective subparagraphs of paragraph 47 of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1:  
 47(a) bis.  The total quantity of AAUs in the  previous period surplus reserve 
account at the beginning of the year;  
 47(h) bis.  The total quantity of AAUs cancelled under Article 3, paragraphs 1 ter 
and 1 quater;  
 47(h) ter.  The total quantity of AAUs cancelled under Article 3, paragraph 7 ter.  
III. Comp ilation and accounting of emission inventories and 
assigned amounts  
Compilation and accounting database  
18. For the purpose of the second commitment period, the following shall be added after 
paragraph 52 (b) of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1:  
 52(c)  For the pu rpose of the second commitment period, any positive difference 
between the assigned amount for the second commitment period for a Party included 
in Annex I and average annual emissions for the first three years of the preceding 
commitment period multiplied  by eight, pursuant to Article 3, paragraph 7 ter;  
 52(d)  For the purpose of the second commitment period, the forest management 
reference level inscribed in the appendix to the annex to decision 2/CMP.7;  
 52(e)  For the purpose of the second commitment pe riod, any cancellations of 
Kyoto Protocol units pursuant to paragraph 5(a) of section XV of the annex to 
decision 27/CMP.1 arising from non -compliance in the first commitment period.  
19. For the purpose of the second commitment period, the following shall be a dded after 
paragraph 55(e) of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1:  
 55(f)  Technical corrections in accordance with paragraph 15 of decision 2/CMP.7;  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 17  55(g)  For those activities for which the Party has elected to account annually, the 
net anthropogenic emission s and removals of greenhouse gases in accordance with 
decision 2/CMP.7 and the related accounting quantity for the calendar year;  
 55(h)  For those activities for which the Party has elected to account for the entire 
commitment period, the net anthropogenic  emissions and removals of greenhouse 
gases in accordance with decision 2/CMP.7 and the related accounting quantity at 
the end of the commitment period;  
 55(i)  In the second commitment period, any changes to the total allowable issuance 
of RMUs resulting f rom forest management activities under Article 3, paragraph 4, 
due to technical corrections to forest management reference levels reported by a 
Party in accordance with paragraphs 14 and 15 of decision 2/CMP.7 and reviewed 
under Article 8 in accordance wit h decision 2/CMP.7.  
20. For the purpose of the second commitment period, the following shall be added after 
paragraph 58(h) of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1:  
 58(h) bis.  For the purpose of the second commitment period, total cancellations 
of AAUs cancelled un der Article 3, paragraphs 1 ter and 1 quater;  
 58(h) ter.  For the purpose of the second commitment period, total cancellations 
of AAUs cancelled under Article 3, paragraph 7 ter.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
18  Annex II  
Standard electronic format for reporting information on  
Kyoto Protocol units1 
I. General reporting instructions  
1. Each Party included in Annex I with a quantified emissions limitation or reduc tion 
commitment inscribed in the third column of Annex B shall annually report tables in a 
standard electronic format (SEF) to the secretariat electronically. Any related information 
of a non -quantitative nature shall be submitted  separately. Unless otherw ise indicated, 
Parties shall submit information for the previous calendar year (based on Universal 
Coordinated Time). This is referred to as the “reported year” (e.g. in the 2017 SEF 
submission, the “reported year” will be the 2016 calendar year).  
2. For the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol, each Party included in 
Annex I shall submit its first SEF for reporting  Kyoto Protocol units for the second 
commitment period in conjunction with its first annual inventory submission for that 
commitment peri od.2 
3. Each Party included in Annex I shall submit  the SEF annually until the expiration of 
the additional period for the fulfilment of commitments for the relevant commitment 
period.  
4. If a Party included in Annex I is undertaking transactions for two or more  
commitment periods simultaneously, then the Party shall provide a separate, complete 
report for each commitment period. Each report shall contain information on only those 
Kyoto  Protocol units valid for that commitment period.3 
5. All values recorded in the SEF tables shall be positive, whole units. Negative values 
shall not be entered.  
6. Not all unit types are relevant to each account, transaction or event type. Where a 
cell is shaded in a table, the information or transaction does not apply to that particular  unit 
type.  
7. All tables shall be filled in completely. If no units of a particular type occurred for a 
transaction in the previous year, the Party shall enter “NO” in the cell for “not occurring”.  
8. In the interest of readability, descriptive titles are used in the SEF to refer to specific 
account and transaction types. Explanations of those descriptive titles and references to the 
pertinent provisions under the Kyoto  Protocol are provided in the instructions on individual 
tables contained in chapter II below.  
                                                           
 1 Assigned amount unit s (AAUs), emission reduction units (ERUs), removal units (RMUs),  and 
certified emission reductions (CERs), including temporary certified emission reductions (tCERs) and  
long-term certified emission reductions (lCERs).  
 2 In accordance with decision 2/CMP.8 , paragraph 5.  
 3 AAUs, ERUs, RMUs  and CERs, including tCERs and lCERs.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 19 II. Instructions on individual tables  
A. Table 1. Total quantities of Kyoto  Protocol units by account type at 
beginning of reported year  
9. In table 1, each Party included in Annex I shall provide information on the total 
quantity of Kyoto  Protocol units contained in its national registry, by account type and by 
unit type, as at 1 January of the reported year.  
10. Each Party included in Annex I shall report on the total quantities of Kyoto  Protocol 
units, by unit type, held in each of the following account types:  
(a) “Party  holding accounts” (paragraph 21(a) of the annex to decision 
13/CMP.1);  
(b) “Entity holding accounts” (paragraph 21(b) of the annex to decision 
13/CMP.1);  
(c) “Retirement account” (paragraph 21(f) of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1);  
(d) “Previous period surplus reserv e account” (paragraph 23 of decision 
1/CMP.8);  
(e) “Article 3.3/3.4 net source cancellation accounts”, for the cancellation of 
Kyoto Protocol units as a result of emissions from activities under Article 3, paragraphs 3 
and 4, of the Kyoto  Protocol (paragraph 2 1(c) of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1 and 
decision 2/CMP.7);  
(f) “Non -compliance cancellation account”, for the cancellation of Kyoto 
Protocol units following a determination by the Compliance Committee that the Party 
included in Annex I is not in compliance with its commitment under Article 3, paragraph 1 
(paragraphs 12(e) and 21(d) of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1);  
(g) “Voluntary cancellation account”, for voluntary cancellations (paragraph 
21(e) of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1);  
(h) “Cancellation account for remaining units after carry -over”, to cancel units 
that remain after the expiration of the additional period for fulfilling commitments  and the 
carry -overs, if any, have been undertaken (paragraph 36 of the annex to decision 
13/CMP.1);  
(i) “Article 3. 1 ter and q uater ambition increase cancellation account”, for 
cancellations pursuant to paragraph 8 of decision 1/CMP.8;  
(j) “Article 3.7 ter cancellation account”, for cancellations pursuant to Article 3, 
paragraph 7 ter;  
(k) “tCER cancellation account for expiry”, to cance l temporary certified 
emission reduction (tCERs) after their expiry (paragraph 53 of the annex to decision 
5/CMP.1);  
(l) “lCER cancellation account for expiry”, to cancel long -term certified 
emission reduction (lCERs) after their expiry (paragraph 53 of the an nex to decision 
5/CMP.1);  
(m) “lCER cancellation account for reversal of removals ”, to cancel lCERs held 
in holding accounts where there has been a reversal of removals by sinks for the project 
activity concerned (paragraph 49 of the annex to decision 5/CMP.1 and paragraph 3 of 
appendix D to decision 5/CMP.1);  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
20  (n) “lCER cancellation account for non -submission of certification report”, to 
cancel lCERs held in holding accounts where a certification report for the project activity 
concerned has not been provided (para graph 50 of the annex to decision 5/CMP.1 and 
paragraph 3 of appendix D to decision 5/CMP.1).  
11. In addition, each Party included in Annex I shall report on the total quantities of 
Kyoto  Protocol units, by unit type, held in each of the replacement account ty pes specified 
in the following paragraphs of the annex to decision 5/CMP.1:  
(a) “tCER replacement account for expiry”, to cancel assigned amount units  
(AAUs), certified emission reduction  (CERs), emission reduction units  (ERUs), removal 
units (RMUs) and/or tCE Rs for the purpose of replacing tCERs prior to expiry (para . 43); 
(b) “lCER replacement account for expiry”, to cancel AAUs, CERs, ERUs 
and/or RMUs for the purpose of replacing lCERs prior to expiry (para . 47(a));  
(c) “lCER replacement account for reversal of remo vals”, to cancel AAUs, 
CERs, ERUs, RMUs and/or lCERs from the same project activity for the purpose of 
replacing lCERs where there has been a reversal of removals by sinks (para . 47(b));  
(d) “lCER replacement account for non -submission of certification report” , to 
cancel AAUs, CERs, ERUs, RMUs and/or lCERs from the same project activity for the 
purpose of replacing lCERs when a certification report has not been provided (para . 47(c)).  
B. Table 2(a). Annual internal transactions  
12. In table 2(a), Annex I Parties shall  report information on the total quantity of 
Kyoto  Protocol units involved in internal transactions (those that did not involve another 
registry) that occurred between 1 January and 31 December of the reported year, as 
described below, including any correc tive transactions.  
13. Under the “Article 6 issuance and conversion” section, Annex I Parties shall report 
information relating to joint implementation projects under the Kyoto  Protocol in 
accordance with the following paragraphs of the annex to decision 9/CMP .1: 
(a) For “Party -verified projects” (also referred to as “track one” projects) Annex 
I Parties shall report information pertaining to projects for which emission reductions or the 
enhancement of removals have been verified by the host Party in accordance wit h 
paragraph 23 of the annex to decision 9/CMP.1:  
(i) Each Party included in Annex I shall report under “Additions” the total 
quantity of ERUs issued pursuant to paragraph 29 of the annex to decision 
13/CMP.1;  
(ii) The Party shall report under “Subtractions” the cor responding quantity of 
AAUs converted, or, in the case of land use, land -use change and forestry 
(LULUCF) projects, the corresponding quantity of RMUs converted, pursuant to 
paragraph  29 of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1;  
(b) For “Independently verified projec ts” (also referred to as “track two” 
projects),  Annex I Parties shall report information pertaining to projects for which emission 
reductions or the enhancement of removals have been verified through the procedure under 
the Article  6 Supervisory Committee in accordance with paragraphs 30 –45 of the annex to 
decision 9/CMP.1:  
(i) Each Party included in Annex I shall report under “Additions” the total 
quantity of ERUs issued pursuant to paragraph 29 of the annex to decision 
13/CMP.1;  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 21 (ii) The Party shall report under “Subtractions” the corresponding quantity of 
AAUs converted, or, in the case of LULUCF projects, the corresponding quantity of 
RMUs converted, pursuant to paragraph 29 of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1.  
14. Under the section “Article 3.3 and 3.4 issuance or ca ncellation”, each Party included 
in Annex I shall report the quantity of RMUs issued or the units cancelled for its LULUCF 
activities under Article 3, paragraphs 3 and 4 , of the Kyoto Protocol, by individual activity, 
in accordance with the annex to decisi on 16/CMP.1 and decision 2/CMP.7, and with its 
election of activities pursuant to paragraph 8(c) and (d) of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1 
and paragraphs 7 and 8 of the annex to decision 2/CMP.7:  
(a) For any activity resulting in a net removal, each Party incl uded in Annex I 
shall report under “Additions” the total quantity of RMUs issued pursuant to paragraph 25 
of the annex to decision 13/CMP 1 and decision 2/CMP.7;  
(b) For any activity resulting in net emissions, each Party shall report under 
“Subtractions” the total quantities of AAUs, ERUs, RMUs and/or CERs cancelled pursuant 
to paragraph  32 of the annex to decision 13/CMP. 1 and decision 2/CMP.7.  
15. Under the section “Article 12 afforestation and reforestation”, each Party included in 
Annex I shall report informat ion relating to afforestation and reforestation project activities 
under the clean development mechanism (CDM), as specified in the relevant paragraphs of 
the annex to decision 5/CMP.1:4 
(a) “Replacement of expired tCERs”, the total quantities of AAUs, CERs, E RUs, 
RMUs and/or tCERs that were transferred to the tCER replacement account (para . 44); 
(b) “Replacement of expired lCERs”, the total quantities of AAUs, CERs, ERUs 
and/or RMUs that were transferred to the lCER replacement account for replacement of 
expiring lCERs (para . 47(a));  
(c) “Replacement of lCERs for reversal of  removals”, the total quantities of 
AAUs, CERs, ERUs, RMUs and/or lCERs that were transferred to the lCER replacement 
account for reversal of removals (para . 47(b));  
(d) “Cancellation of lCERs for rever sal of  removals”, the total quantities of 
lCERs that were cancelled following a reversal of removals (para . 49 and appendix D, para . 
3); 
(e) “Replacement of lCERs for non -submission of certification report”, the total 
quantities of AAUs, CERs, ERUs, RMUs and/o r lCERs that were transferred to the lCER 
replacement account for non -submission of certification report (para . 50 and appendix D, 
para. 3); 
(f) “Cancellation of lCERs for non -submission of certification report”, the total 
quantities of lCERs that were cancell ed following a non -submission of certification report 
(para . 50 and appendix D, para . 3). 
16. Under “Other cancellation”, each Party included in Annex I shall report the total 
quantities of Kyoto  Protocol units, by type, that were cancelled for the following reasons:5 
(a) “Voluntary cancellation”, for voluntary cancellations (para . 21(e) of the 
annex to decision 13/CMP.1);  
 
                                                           
 4 Additional information relating to afforestation and reforestation project activities is reported in 
table  3. 
 5 Cancellations following determination of non -compliance are reported  in table 5(a).  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
22  (b) “Article 3.1 ter and quater ambition increase cancellation”, for cancellations 
pursuant to paragraph 8 of decision 1/CMP.8 .6 
17. Each Party includ ed in Annex I shall sum the quantities of Kyoto  Protocol units in 
each column and report these under “Sub -total”.  
18. In the box “Retirement”, each Party included in Annex I shall report the following 
information:  
(a) Under the line “Retirement”, the total quanti ties of Kyoto  Protocol units, by 
type, that were transferred from its national holding account to its retirement account. 
These values shall not be included in the main body of table 2(a);  
(b) Under the line “Retirement from PPSR”, the total quantities of AAUs  that 
were transferred from its previous period surplus reserve (PPSR) account to its retirement 
account. These values shall not be included in the main body of table 2(a);  
(c) Under the line “Total”, the total quantities of units that were transferred to its 
retirement account.  
C. Table 2(b). Total annual external transactions  
19. In table 2(b), Annex I Parties shall report information on the total quantities of 
Kyoto  Protocol units involved in external transactions (those that involved another registry) 
that occurre d between 1  January and 31 December of the reported year, including any 
corrective transactions.  
20. Under “Total transfers and acquisitions”, each Party included in Annex I shall 
include a separate row for each registry (Party or CDM registry) to which it transferred, 
from which it acquired or from which it was forwarded Kyoto  Protocol units during the 
previous year:  
(a) Each Party shall report the quantities of all Kyoto  Protocol units acquired 
from a registry, including any units transferred from the Adaptati on Fund account or 
forwarded from the CDM registry, by type, under “Additions”;  
(b) Each Party shall report the total quantities of Kyoto  Protocol units transferred 
to that registry, including transfers to the share of proceeds pursuant to paragraph 21 of 
decision 1/CMP.8, cancellations for excess issuance of a CDM project activity7 and 
cancellations of units following a reversal of storage8 or non -submission of certification 
report9 for a carbon dioxide capture and storage (CCS) project activity, under 
“Subtractions” on the same line . 
21. Each Party included in Annex I shall sum the quantities of Kyoto  Protocol units in 
each column and report these under “Sub -total”.  
                                                           
 6 Cancellations to increase ambition in accordance with paragraph 8 of decision 1/CMP.8 are also 
reported in table 5(a).  
 7 Paragraph 52 of the annex to decision 5/CMP.1.  
 8 Paragraph 24(b) of the annex to decision 10/CMP.7.  
 9 Paragraph 27 of the annex to decision 10/CMP.7.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 23 D. Table 2(c). Annual transactions between previous period surplus 
reserve  accounts  
22. Under “Tran sfers and acquisitions between PPSR accounts”, each Party included in 
Annex I shall include a separate row for each registry to which it transferred AAUs from its 
PPSR account or from which it acquired AAUs located in a PPSR account during the 
previous yea r: 
(a) The quantity of AAUs acquired shall be reported under “Additions”. This 
quantity shall also be reported under the “Total transfers and acquisitions” section of table 
2(b);  
(b) The quantity of AAUs transferred shall be reported under “Subtractions”. 
This qua ntity shall also be reported under the “Total transfers and acquisitions” section of 
table 2(b).  
23. Each Party included in Annex I shall sum the quantities of Kyoto  Protocol units in 
each column and report these under “Sub -total”.  
E. Table 2(d). Share of proceed s transactions under decision 1/CMP.8, 
paragraph  21 - Adaptation Fund  
24. The term “first international transfer” refers to the first external transfer of each 
individual AAU from the originating registry to the registry of another Party, tracked by its 
serial  number . 
25. Each Party included in Annex I shall report the quantity of units transferred and of 
units issued for which a share of the proceeds levy applies  and the related quantity of units 
contributed to the Adaptation Fund in accordance with paragraph 21 o f decision 1/CMP.8 
as follows:  
(a) Under “First international transfers of AAUs”, “Amount transferred or 
converted”, each Party shall report the total quantity of AAUs transferred for the first time 
from its registry to another registry tracked by serial numbe r. Under “First international 
transfers of AAUs”, “Amount contributed as Share of Proceeds (SoP) to the Adaptation 
Fund”, each Party shall report the total quantity of AAUs contributed to the Adaptation 
Fund. These transfers shall also be included in the “ Transfers and acquisitions” section of 
table 2(b);  
(b) Under “Issuance of ERUs from Party -verified projects”, “Amount transferred 
or converted”, each Party shall report the total quantity of ERUs relating to projects where 
emission reductions or enhancements o f removals have been verified by the host Party in 
accordance with paragraph 23 of the annex to decision 9/CMP.1. Under “Issuance of ERUs 
from Party -verified projects”, “Amount contributed as SoP to the Adaptation Fund”, each 
Party shall report the total q uantity of ERUs issued relating to projects where emission 
reductions or enhancements of removals have been verified by the host Party in accordance 
with paragraph 23 of the annex to decision 9/CMP.1 and contributed to the Adaptation 
Fund. These transfers shall also be included under the ”Transfers and acquisitions” section 
of table 2(b);  
(c) Under “Issuance of independently verified ERUs”, “Amount transferred or 
converted”, each Party shall report the total quantity of ERUs that had been independently 
verified by the Article 6 Supervisory Committee. Under “Issuance of independently 
verified ERUs”, “A mount contributed as SoP to the Adaptation Fund”, each Party shall 
report the total quantity of ERUs issued that were independently verified by the Article 6 FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
24  Supervisory Committee and contributed to the Adaptation Fund. These transfers shall also 
be includ ed under the “Transfers and acquisitions” section of table 2(b).  
F. Table 2(e). Total annual transactions  
26. Each Party included in Annex I shall add the subtotals of tables 2(a) and 2(b) and 
report the corresponding quantities under “Total” in table 2(e).  
G. Table  3. Annual expiry, cancellation and replacement  
27. In table 3, Annex I Parties shall report information on the expiry, cancellation and 
replacement of tCERs, lCERs and CERs from CCS project activities in accordance with the 
modalities and procedures for affor estation and reforestation project activities under the 
CDM (decision 5/CMP.1) and the modalities and procedures for CCS in geological 
formations as CDM project activities (decision 10/CMP.7). Annex I Parties shall include all 
transactions that occurred be tween 1  January and 31 December of the reported year, 
including any corrective transactions.  
28. Each Party included in Annex I shall report the following information under the 
section “Temporary CERs”:  
(a) “Expired in retirement and replacement accounts”: the qua ntity of tCERs that 
expired in the reported year in the retirement account and the tCER replacement accounts 
for the previous commitment period and the quantity of units that were used to replace 
them. These tCERs will have been valid for the previous comm itment period and will 
expire in the final year of the commitment period;  
(b) “Expired in holding accounts”: the quantity of tCERs that expired in the 
reported year in all Party and entity holding accounts for the previous commitment period 
and the quantity of  units that were cancelled as a result.  
29. Each Party included in Annex I shall report the following information under the 
section “Long -term CERs”:  
(a) “Expired in retirement and replacement accounts”, the quantity of lCERs  that 
expired in the reported year in the retirement account and the lCER replacement accounts 
for previous commitment period s and the quantity of units that were used to replace them. 
These lCERs will have been valid for the previous commitment period;  
(b) “Expired in holding accounts”, the quantity of lCERs that expired in all Party 
and entity holding accounts and the quantity of units that were cancelled as a result. These 
lCERs will have been valid for the previous commitment period;  
(c) “Subject to reversal of  removals ”, in the event that the Party has received 
notification(s) of a reversal of removals under a project activity from the Executive Board 
of the clean development mechanism (CDM Executive Board), the quantity of lCERs that 
the Party is required to r eplace pursuant to the notification(s) and the quantity of units that 
the Party used for replacement or cancellation as a result of these notifications;  
(d) “Subject to non -submission of certification report”, in the event that the Party 
included in Annex I ha s received notification(s) of non -submission of certification report 
under a project activity from the CDM Executive Board, the quantity of lCERs that the 
Party is required to replace pursuant to the notification(s) and the quantity of units that the 
Party  used for replacement or cancellation as a result of the notification(s).  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 25 30. Each Party included in Annex I shall report the following information under the 
section “Carbon Capture and Storage CERs”:  
(a) “Subject to net reversal of storage”, in the event that the  Party has received 
notification(s) of a net reversal of storage of a CCS project activity from the CDM 
Executive Board, the quantity of units that the Party included in Annex I is required to 
cancel pursuant to that notification and the quantity of units that the Party included in 
Annex I used for cancellation as a result of these notifications. The units used to meet this 
requirement are transferred to the CDM registry and are therefore not reported in table 2(a).  
These units used to meet this requirement  shall also be reported in table 2(b);  
(b) “Subject to non -submission of certification report”, in the event that the Party 
included in Annex I has received notification(s) of non -submission of certification report 
for a CCS project activity from the CDM Execu tive Board, the quantity of units that the 
Party included in Annex I is required to replace pursuant to the notification(s) and the 
quantity of units that the Party included in Annex I used for cancellation as a result of the 
notification(s). The units use d to meet this requirement are transferred to the CDM registry 
and are therefore not reported in table 2(a).  These units used to meet this requirement shall 
also be reported in table 2(b).  
31. Annex I Parties shall sum the quantities of Kyoto  Protocol units in  each column and 
report these under “Total”.  
H. Table 4. Total quantities of Kyoto  Protocol units by account type at end 
of reported year  
32. In table 4, Annex I Parties shall include information on the total quantities of 
Kyoto  Protocol units in each account typ e, by unit type, in the national registry at 31 
December of the reported year.  
33. The structure of table 4 follows the structure of table 1.  
I. Table 5(a). Summary information on additions and subtractions  
34. In table 5(a), Annex I Parties shall report cumulative i nformation for the reported 
year and previously reported years to facilitate the recording of information for the 
commitment period in the compilation and accounting database in accordance with the 
annex to decision 13/CMP.1 and this decision.  
35. Each Party included in Annex I shall report the following information:  
(a) “Assigned amount units issued”, “Additions”, the total quantity of AAUs 
issued on the basis of its assigned amount under Article 3, paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 8 bis;  
(b) “Article 3, paragrap h 7 ter, cancellations”, “Subtractions”, the total quantity 
of AAUs cancelled in accordance with Article 3, paragraph 7 ter;  
(c) “Cancellation following increase in ambition”, the total quantity of AAUs 
cancelled in accordance with paragraph 8 of decision 1/CM P.8; 
(d) “Cancellation of remaining units after carry -over”, the total quantity of units, 
per unit type, cancelled after expiration of the additional period for fulfilling commitments  
and carry -overs, if any, have been undertaken (decision 13/CMP.1, annex, par a. 36); 
(e) “Non -compliance cancellation”, if applicable, the quantities of 
Kyoto  Protocol units, by type, that the Party cancelled pursuant to a determination by the 
Compliance Committee that the Party is not in compliance with its commitment under FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
26  Article 3,  paragraph 1, for the previous commitment period pursuant to paragraph  37 of the 
annex to decision 13/CMP.1;10 
(f) “Carry -over”, under “Additions” and if applicable, the total quantities of 
ERUs and/or CERs that were carried over from the previous commitment pe riod; under 
“Subtractions” the total quantities of ERUs and/or CERs that were carried over to the 
subsequent commitment period;  
(g) “Carry -over to PPSR”, under “Additions” and if applicable, the total 
quantities of AAUs that were carried over from the previous  commitment period to the 
PPSR account; under “Subtractions” the total quantities of AAUs that were carried over to 
the subsequent commitment period from the PPSR account.   
J. Table 5(b). Summary information on annual transactions  
36. In table 5(b), each Party included in Annex I shall provide summary information on 
annual transactions for the reported year and previously reported years for the commitment 
period:  
(a) For the reported year, each Party shall report the total quantities of 
Kyoto  Protocol units, by type , from table 2(e);  
(b) For all years prior to the reported year, the Party shall report the total 
quantities of Kyoto  Protocol units, as reported in table 5(b) in the previous SEF tables;  
(c) Under “Total”, each Party shall report the sum to date of all transactio ns. 
K. Table 5(c). Summary information on annual transactions between 
previous period surplus reserve  accounts  
37. In table 5(c), each Party included in Annex I shall provide summary information on 
annual transactions between PPSR accounts for the reported year and for all previously 
reported years for the commitment period:  
(a) For the reported year, each Party shall report the total quantities of AAUs, 
from table 2(c);  
(b) For all years prior to the reported year, the Party shall report the total 
quantities of AAUs, as  reported in table 5(c) in the previous SEF tables;  
(c) Under “Total”, each Party shall report the sum to date of all transactions.  
L. Table 5(d). Summary information on expiry, cancellation and 
replacement  
38. In table 5(d), Annex I Parties shall provide summary inf ormation relating to the 
replacement and cancellations of tCERs, lCERs and CERs from CCS project activities for 
each reported year for the commitment period.  
39. For the reported year, each Party included in Annex I shall report:  
                                                           
 10 This information will not be available until completion of the compliance assessment for the previous 
commitment period, following the expiration of the additional period for the fulfilment of 
commitments.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 27 (a) Under “Requirement to replace or cancel”, the total quantities of tCERs, 
lCERs or CERs from CCS project activities that expired, were subject to a reversal of 
removals or a reversal of storage or a non -submission of certification report in that year;  
(b) Under “Replacement”, the total quan tities of Kyoto  Protocol units, by type, 
cancelled to replace tCERs or lCERs. These quantities should match those reported under 
“Total” in table 3;  
(c) Under “Cancellation”, the total quantities of Kyoto  Protocol units, by type, 
cancelled to replace tCERs, lC ERs or to respond to a reversal of storage or non -submission 
of certification report for CCS project activities. These quantities should match those 
reported under “Total” in table 3.  
40. For all years prior to the reported year, the Party included in Annex I shall repeat the 
information under “Requirement to replace or cancel” and under “Replacement” and 
“Cancellation” as reported in the previous SEF.  
41. Under “Total”, each Party included in Annex I shall report the sum of each column. 
At the end of the commitmen t period, the total quantities of tCERs, lCERs and CERs from 
CCS project activities should match the total quantities of Kyoto  Protocol units under 
“Replacement” and “Cancellation”.  
M. Table 5(e). Summary information on retirement  
42. In table 5(e), Annex I Parti es shall provide summary information on retirement to 
facilitate the compliance assessment at the end of the additional period for fulfilling 
commitments.  
43. For the reported year, each Party included in Annex I shall report under 
“Retirement”, the total quan tities of Kyoto  Protocol units, by type, retired in that year for 
the purpose of demonstrating its compliance with its commitment under Article 3, 
paragraph 1, of the Kyoto  Protocol. These quantities should match those reported under 
“Retirement”, “Total”,  in table 2(a).  
44. For all years prior to the reported year, the Party included in Annex I shall repeat the 
information as reported in the previous SEF.  
45. Under “Total”, each Party included in Annex I shall report the sum of each column.  
N. Table 6. Memo item: Cor rective transactions undertaken in the 
reported year  
46. In tables 6(a) to 6(c), Annex I Parties shall report any corrective transactions 
undertaken in the reported year relating to previously reported years, including transactions 
to address a correction to t he compilation and accounting database applied by the 
Compliance Committee, pursuant to paragraph 5(b) in chapter V of the annex to decision 
27/CMP.1 . It should be noted that quantities of Kyoto  Protocol units reported here are 
included in the annual trans actions reported in tables 2 and 3 and are reported in tables 6(a) 
to 6(c) as a memo item for the purpose of transparency. Parties shall provide explanations 
for these transactions in accompanying text, as required by paragraph 8 of section E of the 
guidel ines for reporting under Article  7 of the Kyoto  Protocol.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
28  III. Standard electronic format tables  
47. The SEF tables are not included in this document but can be downloaded from the 
UNFCCC website.11 
 
                                                           
 11 <http: //unfccc.int/national_reports/accounting_reporting_and_review_under_the_kyoto_protocol  
/items/7969.php>.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8 /Add.1  
 29 Annex III  
Guidelines for the preparation of the information required under 
Article 7 of the Kyoto Protocol  
1. For the purpose of the second commitment period, para graph 11 of the annex to 
decision 15/CMP.1 shall not apply and Parties  shall report Kyoto Protocol units in 
accordance with the standard electronic format and reporting instructions as contained in 
annex II.  
2. For the purpose of the second commitment period,  paragraph 18 of the annex to 
decision 15/CMP.1 shall be replaced with the following paragraph:  
 18. For the purpose of the second commitment period, each Party included in 
Annex I shall report the calculation of its commitment period reserve in accordance  
with the annex to decision 18/CP.7, decision 11/CMP.1 and paragraph 18 of 
decision  1/CMP.8.  
3. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 19 of the annex to 
decision 15/CMP.1 shall be replaced with the following paragraph:  
 19. For the purpos e of the second commitment period, each Party included in 
Annex I shall provide access, upon the request of expert review teams, to 
information held in the national registry relating to the holding accounts referred to 
in paragraph 21(b) of the annex to de cision 13/CMP.1, and other types of accounts 
and transactions for the previous calendar year, that substantiates the supplementary 
information reported under paragraph 1 above and paragraph 12 of the annex to 
decision 15/CMP.1.  
4. For the purpose of the second commitment period, the following paragraph shall be 
inserted after paragraph 24 of the annex to decision 15/CMP.1:  
 24 bis.  Parties included in Annex I without quantified emission limitation and 
reduction commitments for the second commitment period  shall continue to provide 
information relating to how they are striving, under Article 3, paragraph 14, of the 
Kyoto Protocol, to implement their commitments mentioned in Article 3, paragraph 
1, of the Kyoto Protocol in such a way as to minimize adverse s ocial, environmental 
and economic impacts on developing country Parties, particularly those identified in 
Article 4, paragraphs 8 and 9, of the Convention, in accordance with this decision.  
8th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
30  Decision 4/CMP.11  
  Implications of the implementation of decisions 2/CMP.7 to 
4/CMP.7 and 1/CMP.8 on the previous decisions on 
methodological iss ues related to the Kyoto Protocol , 
including those relating to Articles 5, 7 and 8 of the Kyoto 
Protocol, part II: implications related to review and 
adjustments and other related issues  
 The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Kyoto  Protocol , 
 Recalling  Articles 5, 7 and 8 of the Kyoto Protocol,  
 Also recalling  decisions 2/CMP.6, 2/CMP.7, 3/CMP.7, 4/CMP.7, 1/CMP.8, 
2/CMP.8 and 6/CMP.9,  
 Being aware  of decisions 11/CMP.1, 13/CMP.1, 15/CMP.1, 16/CMP.1, 18/CMP.1, 
19/CMP.1, 20/CMP.1, 21/CMP.1, 22/CMP.1, 23/CMP.1, 24/CMP.1, 25/CMP.1, 27/CMP.1 
and 8/CMP.5,  
1. Decides  that, for the purpose of the second commitment period of the Kyoto 
Protocol and pending the entry into force of the Doha Amendment, contained in annex I to 
decision 1/CMP.8, any references in this decision to Annex A, Annex B, Article 3, 
paragraphs 1 bis,  1 ter, 1 quater, 7 bis, 7 ter, 8, 8 bis, 12 bis and 12 ter, and Article 4, 
paragraphs 2 and 3, unless otherwise specified, shall be understood as referring to those 
Articles and annexes as contained in the Doha Amendment, and that upon the entry into 
force of the Doha Amendment such references shall be read as references to the relevant 
Articles of the Kyoto Protocol as amended;  
2. Also decides  that, for the purpose of the second commitment period, decisions 
20/CMP.1 and 22/CMP.1 shall apply mutatis mutandis,  except where otherwise specified in 
decisions 1/CMP.8 and 2/CMP.8 and in this decision;  
3. Further decides  that, for the purpose of the second commitment period, the 
following changes shall apply to decisions 18/CMP.1, 19/CMP.1, 20/CMP.1 and 
22/CMP.1:  
(a) All re ferences to Article 3, paragraphs 7 and 8, shall be read as references to 
Article 3, paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 8 bis;  
(b) All references to the Revised 1996 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse 
Gas Inventories  (hereinafter referred to as the Revised 1996 IPC C Guidelines) as 
elaborated by the Good Practice Guidance and Uncertainty Management in National 
Greenhouse Gas Inventories  (hereinafter referred to as the IPCC good practice guidance), 
the IPCC Guidelines as elaborated by the IPCC good practice guidance, the IPCC 
Guidelines and any good practice guidance or the IPCC good practice guidance, shall be 
read as references to the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories  
(hereinafter referred to as the 2006 IPCC Guidelines) as implemented thro ugh the 
“Guidelines for the preparation of national communications by Parties included in Annex I 
to the Convention, Part I: UNFCCC reporting guidelines on annual greenhouse gas 
inventories” and the 2013 Revised Supplementary Methods and Good Practice Guid ance 
Arising from the Kyoto Protocol and the 2013 Supplement to the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 31 National Greenhouse Gas Inventories: Wetlands , as implemented in accordance with 
decisions 24/CP.19 and 6/CMP.9, except references in paragraph 1 of decision 20/CM P.1; 
(c) All references to chapter 7 of the IPCC good practice guidance shall be read 
as references to chapter 4 of volume 1 of the 2006 IPCC Guidelines;  
(d) All references to “source categories” shall be read as references to 
“categories”;  
(e) All references to “init ial review” shall be read as references to “review of the 
report to facilitate the calculation of the assigned amount”; except that in paragraph 125 of 
the annex to decision 22/CMP.1;  
(f) All references to “industrial processes, solvent and other product use” shall 
be read as references to “industrial processes and product use”;  
(g) All references to decision 13/CMP.1 shall be read as references to decision 
13/CMP.1 in conjunction with decision 3/CMP.11, except those in paragraphs 2 and 5 of 
decision 22/CMP.1 and p aragraphs 85(a) and (c), 86(a) and (c), 87(a) , 89(a) and 92 of the 
annex to decision 22/CMP.1;  
(h) All references to paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1 
shall be read as references to paragraph 2 of and annex I to decision 2/CMP.8, except t hose 
in paragraphs 2 and 5 of decision 22/CMP.1;  
(i) All references to activities under Article 3, paragraph 3, and elected activities 
under Article 3, paragraph 4, shall be read as references to activities under Article 3, 
paragraph 3, forest management under  Article 3, paragraph 4, and any elected activities 
under Article 3, paragraph 4;  
(j) All references to decision 16/CMP.1 shall be read as references to decision 
2/CMP.7 and decision 6/CMP.9;  
(k) Reference to “section I of the guidelines for the preparation of the  
information required under Article  7” in paragraphs 50(a) and 69 of the annex to decision 
22/CMP.1 shall be read as reference to “the guidance included in annex II to decision 
2/CMP.8 and in decision 6/CMP.9”;  
(l) Reference to “section I.D, greenhouse gas inv entory information, of the 
guidelines for the preparation of the information required under Article  7” in paragraph 51 
of the annex to decision 22/CMP.1 shall be read as reference to “guidance included in 
annex II to decision 2/CMP.8 and in decision 6/CMP. 9”; 
(m) Reference to “section I.E of the annex to decision 15/CMP.1” in paragraphs 
88(a) and 93 of the annex to decision 22/CMP.1 shall be read as a reference to “guidance 
included in section I.E of the annex to decision 15/CMP.1 and in annex III to decision  
3/CMP.11”;  
(n) References to “section 7.3.2.2 of the Good Practice Guidance and 
Uncertainty Management in National Greenhouse Gas Inventories and section 5.6 of the 
Good Practice Guidance for Land Use, Land -Use Change and Forestry” shall be read as 
references to “section 5.3 of Chapter 5 of volume 1 of the 2006 IPCC Guidelines”;  
(o) References to “paragraph 21 of the annex to decision 16/CMP.1” shall be 
read as references to “paragraph 26 of the annex to decision 2/CMP.7”;  
(p) Reference to “IPCC good practice guidance (chapter 7, section 7.2)” in 
paragraph 14(a) of the annex to decision 19/CMP.1 shall be read as reference to “chapter 
4.3, volume 1, of the 2006 IPCC Guidelines”;  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
32  (q) For the purpose of the second commitment period, all references to decision 
15/CMP.1 in part III of the annex to decision 22/CMP.1 shall be read as references to 
decision 15/CMP.1 in conjunction with annex III to decision 3/CMP.11;  
(r) References to “as reported in accordance with paragraph 6 of the annex to 
decision 13/CMP.1” in paragraph 85(a) of th e annex to decision 22/CMP.1 shall be read as 
references to “as submitted through the report to facilitate the calculation of the assigned 
amount of each Party included in Annex I with a commitment inscribed in the third column 
of Annex B to the Doha Amend ment in accordance with paragraph 2 of decision 2/CMP.8”;  
(s) The definition of key source category in paragraph 3(d) of decision 
19/CMP.1 shall be read as “ Key category  is one that is prioritized within the national 
inventory because its estimate has a signif icant influence on a country’s total inventory of 
greenhouse gases in terms of the absolute level of emissions, the trend in emissions and 
removals, or uncertainty in emissions or removals. Whenever the term key category is used, 
it includes both source an d sink categories”;  
4. Adopts  the revisions to the “Guidelines for review under Article 8 of the Kyoto 
Protocol” for the second commitment period contained in annex I;  
5. Also adopts  the revisions to the “Good practice guidance and adjustments under 
Article 5, p aragraph 2, of the Kyoto Protocol” for the second commitment period set out in 
annex II;  
6. Clarifies  that for the purpose of the second commitment period, the adjustments 
referred to in paragraph 5 above are not applicable to the Parties included in Annex I 
without quantified emission limitation and reduction commitments for the second 
commitment period;  
7. Requests  the secretariat, in view of the revision of the “Guidelines for review under 
Article 8 of the Kyoto Protocol”, to modify the relevant information te chnology tools, as 
needed, so as to support the implementation of the review process;  
8. Recognizes  that the deadline of June 2014, set out in decision 6/CMP.9, paragraph 4, 
for providing the upgraded CRF Reporter to Parties in order to enable them to submit their 
inventories, was not met;  
9. Notes  that the December 2014 software version of the CRF Reporte r was not 
functioning1 in such a manner as to enable Annex I Parties to prepare their inventory 
submissions;  
10. Reiterates that in 2015, Annex I Parties may submit their common reporting format 
tables after 15 April, but no later than the corresponding delay in CRF Reporter 
availability;  
11. Notes  that a delay in the submission of the common reporting format tables by a 
Party also delays the submission of the report to facilitate the calculation of its assigned 
amount referred to in decision 2/CMP.8, paragraph 2;  
12. Acknowledges  that Annex I Parties may submit the report to facilitate the calculation 
of the assigned amount referred to in paragraph 11 above and make the annual inventory 
submission after 15 April, but no later than the corresponding delay in CRF Reporte r 
availability;  
                                                           
 1 Functioning software means that the data on greenhouse gas  emissions/removals are reported 
accurately both in terms of CRF tables and Extensible Mar kup Language format.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 33 13. Urges  Annex I Parties to submit the report to facilitate the calculation of the 
assigned amount referred to in decision 2/CMP.8, paragraph 2, as soon as practically 
possible.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
34  Annex I  
Revisions to the guidelines for review under Article 8 of the Kyoto 
Protocol  
I. General approach to review  
1. For the purpose of the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol, footnote 1 
to the title of the annex to decision 22/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following footnote: 
“Article” in these guidelines refers to an Article of the Kyoto Protocol or an Article in the 
Doha Amendment to the Kyoto P rotocol (annex I to decision 1/CMP.8), unless otherwise 
specified.  
2. For the purpose of the second commitment period, footnotes 5 and 6 of the annex to 
decision 22/CMP.1 shall not apply.  
II. Review of report to facilitate the calculation of the assigned 
amount pursuant to Article 3, paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 8 bis  
3. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraphs 11 and 12 of the 
annex to decision 22/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the foll owing:  
 11. Each Party included in Annex I with a commitment inscribed in the third 
column of the table contained in Annex B to the Doha Amendment shall be subject 
to a review of the report to facilitate the calculation of its assigned amount pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of decision 2/CMP.8 for the second commitment period together with 
the inventory submission for the first year of the second commitment period.  
 12. The expert review team shall review the following information contained or 
referenced in the rep ort to facilitate the calculation of the assigned amount referred 
to in paragraph 2 of decision 2/CMP.8:  
(a) The calculation of the assigned amount pursuant to Article 3, paragraphs 7 
bis, 8 and 8 bis, in accordance with paragraph 2 of annex I to decision 3/CMP.11, 
and the calculation of the commitment period reserve, for conformity with the 
modalities for the accounting of assigned amounts under Article 7, paragraph 4 of 
the Kyoto Protocol, in accordance with the procedures contained in part III of these 
guide lines;1 
(b) The information provided in accordance with paragraphs 1(f) to 1(k) in annex 
I to decision 2/CMP.8 related to the accounting of activities under Article 3, 
paragraphs 3 and 4, of the Kyoto Protocol;  
(c) With regard to Parties included in Annex I with a  commitment inscribed in 
the third column of the table contained in Annex B to the Doha Amendment which 
did not have a quantified emission limitation and reduction target in the first 
commitment period:  
(i) The national system pursuant to Article 5, paragr aph 1, in 
accordance with the procedures contained in part IV of these guidelines;  
                                                           
 1  References to “these guidelines” hereinafter shall be understood as referring to the guidelines 
contained in the annex to decision 22/CMP.1, as amended by the current decision.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 35 (ii) The national registry pursuant to Article 7, paragraph 4, in 
accordance with the procedures contained in part V of these guidelines;  
(d) This review shall replace the revi ew of the same elements in the annual 
inventory review conducted in conjunction with this review. For Parties that have 
reached an agreement to fulfil their commitments under Article 3 jointly, in 
accordance with Article 4, the completeness of information referred to in paragraph 
11 of decision 3/CMP.11.  
4. Paragraph 14 of the annex to decision 22/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following:  
14. For Parties included in Annex I with a commitment inscribed in the third 
column of the table contained in Annex B to the D oha Amendment which did not 
have a quantified emission limitation and reduction target in the first commitment 
period, the review of the report to facilitate the calculation of the assigned amount 
for the second commitment period shall be conducted as an i n-country visit. For 
other Parties included in Annex I the review shall be conducted either as a 
centralized review or as an in -country visit, giving priority to in -country visits for 
those Parties that have not been reviewed in such a way in recent years.  
III. Annual review of national systems and national registries  
5. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 15(b)(iii) and (iv) of 
the annex to decision 22/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following:  
15(b)(iii)  Information provided on national syst ems or changes thereof  in 
accordance with the procedures contained in part IV of these guidelines;  
15(b)(iv)  Information provided on national registries or changes thereto  in 
accordance with the procedures contained in part V of these guidelines.  
6. For the purpose of the second commitment period, the following paragraph shall be 
inserted after paragraph 15(b)(iv) of the annex to decision 22/CMP.1:  
15(b)(iv) bis.  When a Party included in Annex I without a quantified emission 
limitation and reduction commitment for the second commitment period reports 
information on its national registry in accordance with decision 15/CMP.1, that 
information shall be reviewed.  
7. Paragraph 17 of the annex to decision 22/CMP.1 shall not apply for the purpose of 
the second commitment period.  
8. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 97 of the annex to 
decision 22/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following:  
97. The review of the national system shall be conducted in conjunction with the 
annual inventory review.   
IV. Annual review of standard independent assessment reports  
9. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 86(b)(ii) and (iii) of 
the annex to decision 22/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following:  
86(b)(ii)  Standard independent assessment report s (SIARs) prepared by the 
secretariat, including information of any discrepancies or non -replacements 
indicated by these reports;  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
36  86(b)(iii)  Information contained in the national registry that substantiates or 
clarifies the issues raised in the SIAR, if th e SIAR prepared by the secretariat 
indicates any issues related to accounting, transactions, and reporting of units under 
the Kyoto Protocol. In such cases Parties included in Annex I shall provide the 
expert review team with effective access to their nati onal registry during the review. 
The relevant parts of paragraphs 9 and 10 of part I of these guidelines shall also 
apply to this information.  
10. For the purpose of the second commitment period, the reference in paragraph 87(c) 
of the annex to decision 22/CMP .1 shall be updated as follows:  
87(c)  The calculation of the required level of the commitment period reserve is in 
accordance with decision 3/CMP.11.  
11. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 88(b) of the annex to 
decision 22/CMP.1 shall b e replaced by the following:  
88(b)  The information contained in the SIAR identifies any issues related to 
accounting, transactions and reporting of units under the Kyoto Protocol, whether 
these issues still exist and whether recommendations from previous r eviews have 
been implemented by the Party.  
12. Paragraph 88(c –g) and (i) of the annex to decision 22/CMP.1 shall not apply for the 
purpose of the second commitment period.  
13. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 88(h) of the annex to 
decisio n 22/CMP .1 shall be replaced by the following:  
88(h)  The required level of the commitment period reserve as reported, is 
calculated in accordance with decision 3/CMP.11.  
14. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 88(j)(v) of the annex 
to de cision 22/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following:  
88(j)(v)  Assess whether any discrepancy has been identified in the SIAR by 
the transaction log relating to transactions initiated by the Party, and if so the expert 
review team shall:  
 (i) Examine the ca use of the discrepancy and whether the Party or Parties 
has or have corrected the problem that caused the discrepancy;  
 (ii) Assess whether the problem that caused the discrepancy relates to the 
capacity of the national registry to ensure the accurate acco unting, issuance, 
holding, transfer, acquisition, cancellation and retirement of ERUs, CERs, 
tCERs, lCERs, AAUs and RMUs, the replacement of tCERs and lCERs, and 
the carry -over of ERUs, CERs and AAUs, and if so, initiate a thorough 
review of the registry s ystem in accordance with part V of these guidelines.  
15. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 88(k) of the annex to 
decision 22/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following:  
88(k)  Any non -replacement of units has been identified in the SIAR, and if so the 
expert review team shall:  
 (i) Examine the cause of the non -replacement and whether the Party has 
corrected the problem that caused  the non -replacement ; 
 (ii) Assess whether the problem that caused the non -replacement relates to 
the capacity  of the national registry  to ensure the accurate accounting, 
holding, transfer, acquisition, cancellation , and retirement of ERUs, CERs, 
tCERs, lCERs, AAUs and RMUs, and the replacement of tCERs and lCERs, FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 37 and if so, initiate a thorough review of the regis try system in accordance with 
part V of these guidelines.  
V. Consistency with the revised review guidelines under the 
Convention  
16. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraphs 55 –57 of the annex to 
decision 22/CMP.1 shall not apply and paragraph 52 shall be replaced by the following  
paragraph :  
52. Related to the organization of the inventory review in different phases and 
the scheduling of desk, centralized and in -country reviews, the same provisions as 
agreed in the “UNFCCC guidelines for the technical review of greenhouse gas 
inventories from Parties included in Annex I to the Convention” contained in the 
annex to decision 13/CP.20 shall apply.  
17. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 59 shall not a pply and 
the following paragraph shall replace paragraph 60 of the annex to decision 22/CMP.1:  
60. The initial check shall be conducted consistent with the initial assessment 
included in part III of the “UNFCCC guidelines for the technical review of 
green house gas inventories from Parties included in Annex I to the Convention” 
contained in the annex to decision 13/CP.20. The initial check shall in addition cover 
whether:  
(a) A Party included in Annex I to the Convention has failed to include an 
estimate fo r a source category (as defined in chapter 4 of volume 1 of the 2006 IPCC 
Guidelines ) that individually accounted for 7 per cent or more of the Party’s 
aggregate emissions, defined as the aggregated submitted emissions of the gases 
from the sources listed in Annex A to the Kyoto Protocol as contained in the Doha 
Amendment, in the most recent of the Party’s reviewed inventories in which the 
source was estimated;  
(b) An Annex I Party has failed to provide supplementary information in 
accordance with Annex II to decision 2/CMP.8 and decision 6/CMP.9.  
18. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraphs 61 –63 of the annex to 
decision 22/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following:  
61. For the scope of the individual review, the same provisions as included i n the 
“UNFCCC guidelines for the technical review of greenhouse gas inventories from 
Parties included in Annex I to the Convention”, contained in the annex to decision 
13/CP.20 , shall apply.  
19. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraphs 65 –67 of the annex to 
decision 22/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following:  
65. For the scope of the individual review, the same provisions as those included 
in the “UNFCCC Guidelines for the technical review of greenhouse gas inventories 
from Parties include d in Annex I to the Convention” included in the annex to 
decision 13/CP.20 shall apply. In addition, the inventory review shall:  
(a) Examine the application of the requirement of the 2006 IPCC Guidelines, the 
2013 Revised Supplementary Methods and Good Pr actice Guidance Arising from 
the Kyoto Protocol and the Wetlands Supplement  as adopted by the COP/MOP and 
the “UNFCCC Guidelines for the technical review of greenhouse gas inventories 
from Parties included in Annex I to the Convention ” contained in the ann ex to FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
38  decision 13/CP.20 and relevant decisions of the Conference of the Parties on those 
requirements, and identify any divergence from these requirements;  
(b) Assess whether the functions of the national system have been established to 
facilitate the cont inuous improvement of the greenhouse gas inventory and whether 
Quality Assurance/Quality Control procedures in accordance with guidelines for 
national systems in accordance with decision 19/CMP.1 have been implemented;  
(c) Assess the completeness and trans parency of supplementary information in 
accordance with reporting  under Article 7 of the Kyoto Protocol;  
(d) Assess whether the supplementary information reported for activities under 
Article 3, paragraph 3, forest management under Article 3,  paragraph 4 , and any 
elected activities under Article 3, paragraph 4, of the Kyoto Protocol has been 
estimated, reported and accounted in line with 2013 Revised Supplementary 
Methods and Good Practice Guidance Arising from the Kyoto Protocol, decision 
2/CMP.7, annex II  to decision 2/CMP.8 and decision 6/CMP.9.   
20. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 69(d)(i) of the annex 
to decision 22/CMP.1 shall be read as “Gaps in the inventory estimates for source 
categories or gases for which methods are provide d in the IPCC guidelines and the 
Wetlands Supplement, for Parties that have elected to account for wetland drainage and 
rewetting”.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 39 Annex II  
Revisions to the good practice guidance and adjustments under Article 
5, paragraph 2, of the Kyoto Protocol  
1. Paragraphs 1 and 2 of decision 20/CMP.1 shall not apply for the purpose of the 
second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol.  
2. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 11 of decision 
20/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following:  
 11. Decides  that an Annex I Party may submit a revised estimate for a part of its 
inventory of a year of the commitm ent period to which an adjustment was 
previously applied, provided that the revised estimate is submitted, at the latest, in 
conjunction with the inventory for the final year of the commitment period. Subject 
to a review under Article 8 and the acceptance of the revised estimate by the expert 
review team, the revised estimate shall replace the adjusted estimate. In the event of 
a disagreement between the Annex I Party and the expert review team regarding the 
revised estimate, the issue will be forwarded to the Compliance Committee, which 
will resolve the disagreement in accordance with the procedures and mechanisms on 
compliance. The option for an Annex I Party to submit a revised estimate for a part 
of its inventory to which an adjustment was previously app lied should not prevent 
Annex I Parties from making their best efforts to correct the problem at the time it 
was initially identified and in accordance with the time frame set forth in the 
guidelines for review under Article 8.  
3. For the purpose of the secon d commitment period, the following paragraph shall be 
inserted after paragraph 11 of decision 20/CMP.1:  
 12. Decides  that Parties included in Annex I without quantified emission limitation 
and reduction commitments for the second commitment period may subm it a revised 
estimate for a part of their inventory or a single year during the review process, 
noting that the application of the adjustments is not applicable to such Parties. 
Subject to a review under Article 8 of the Kyoto Protocol and the acceptance o f the 
revised estimate by the expert review team, the revised estimate shall replace the 
previous estimate. The option for a Party to submit a revised estimate for a part of its 
inventory should not prevent such a Party from making its best efforts to corr ect the 
problem at the time it was initially identified and in accordance with the time frame 
set forth in the guidelines for review under Article 8 of the Kyoto Protocol.  
I. Technical guidance on methodologies for adjustments under 
Article 5, paragraph 2, of  the Kyoto  Protocol  
4. Footnote 3 in paragraph  4 of the annex to decision 20/CMP.1 shall not apply for the 
purpose of the second commitment period.  
5. For the purpose of the second  commitment period, paragraph 13(c) of the annex to 
decision 20/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following:  
13(c)  For cropland management, grazing land management, revegetation and 
wetland drainage and rewetting under Article 3, paragraph 4, any adjustment t o the 
emissions or removals in the base year resulting from these activities should be 
considered and applied according to the choice made by a Party regarding the FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
40  periodicity of accounting of these activities (e.g. annually or at the end of the 
commitment  period). In the case that the Party has chosen to account annually for 
these activities and submits recalculated estimates, adjustments may be applied 
retroactively for the base year, provided these recalculated estimates have not yet 
been subject to revi ew and the provisions of paragraph 4 above apply to these 
recalculated estimates.  
6. For the purpose of the second commitment period, the following paragraph shall be 
inserted after paragraph 13 of the annex to decision 20/CMP.1:  
13 bis . Adjustments shall be applied to technical corrections to forest management 
reference levels when the reported data on forest management or forest land 
remaining forest land used to establish the reference level are recalculated, and the 
recalculations have not resulted in a te chnical correction to the reference level which 
ensures methodological consistency between the corrected forest management 
reference level and the reported estimates for forest management. The methods and 
conservativeness factors shall be applied to adjust ments to technical corrections for 
forest management using the guidance in the attachment. When an adjustment to a 
forest management emission/removals estimate also results in an adjustment to the 
technical correction, conservativeness factors should not b e applied to the technical 
correction.  
7. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 17 of the annex to 
decision 20/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following:  
17. If the expert review team finds that an estimate submitted by a Party leads to 
an underestimation of emissions or overestimation of removals in the base year or in 
the forest management reference level after any technical correction, or an 
overestimation of emissions or underestimation of removals in a year of the 
commitment period or forest management reference level after any technical 
correction, an adjustment calculated in accordance with paragraph 54 below should 
not be applied.  
8. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 18 of the annex to 
decision 20/CMP.1 shall be  replaced by the following:  
18. Similarly, if the expert review team finds that an estimate submitted by a 
Party leads to an underestimation of removals resulting from any activity under 
Article 3, paragraph 3, or any elected activity under Article 3, para graph 4, in a year 
of the commitment period, or an overestimation of removals in the base year for any 
elected activity under Article 3, paragraph 4 (cropland management, grazing land 
management, revegetation and wetland drainage and rewetting), the adjust ment 
calculated in accordance with paragraph 54 below should not be applied if such a 
calculation would result in an adjusted estimate that is less conservative than the 
original estimate submitted by the Party.  
9. Reference to “paragraph 21 of the annex to d ecision 16/CMP.1” in paragraph 21 of 
the annex to decision 20/CMP.1 shall be read as a reference to “paragraph 26 of the annex 
to decision 2/CMP.7”.  
10. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 28 of the annex to 
decision 20/CMP .1 shall be re placed by the following:  
28. In the case where none of the basic adjustment methods listed in table 1 is 
suitable for a given adjustment case, expert review teams may use other adjustment 
methods. If adjustment methods other than those included in this tec hnical guidance 
are applied, expert review teams should report the reason for not using any of the FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 41 basic adjustment methods of this technical guidance and should justify why they 
consider the method chosen as appropriate.  
11. For the purpose of the second comm itment period, paragraph 34(a) of the annex to 
decision 20/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following, including the additional footnote:  
34(a)  IPCC default values from the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National 
Greenhouse Gas Inventories  (hereinafter referred to  as the 2006 IPCC Guidelines) , 
the 2013 Revised Supplementary Methods and Good Practice Guidance Arising 
from the Kyoto Protocol and the  2013 Supplement to the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for 
National Greenhouse Gas Inventories: Wetlands  (hereinafter referred to as the 
Wetlands Supplement) ,1 or other recommended international data sources included 
in the inventory review resources listed in appendix I to that document, and 
consistent with the IPCC good practice guidance. If emission factors or other 
inventory para meters from other international data sources are used, the expert 
review team should, in the review report, justify and document the reason s for their 
use. 
12. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 38 of the annex to 
decision 20/CMP.1 shal l be replaced by the following:  
38. When using an average inventory parameter from a cluster of countries, 
assumptions made in choosing the cluster should be documented, as should how the 
given inventory average parameter compares with the default parameter or range 
provided in the 2006 IPCC  Guidelines, the 2013 Revised Supplementary Methods 
and Good Practice Guidance Arising from the Kyoto Protocol and the  Wetlands 
Supplement , as applicable , where available. Similarly, when clustering is related to 
the use of a driver (application of an average driver -based emission or removal rate) 
from a cluster of countries, assumptions made for the composition of the cluster and 
the established relationship with the driver should be documented.  
13. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragrap h 42 of the annex to 
decision 20/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following:  
42. This basic adjustment method refers to tier 1 methods in the 2006 IPCC 
Guidelines, the 2013 Revised Supplementary Methods and Good Practice Guidance 
Arising from the Kyoto Proto col and the  Wetlands Supplement.  The Wetlands 
Supplement should be consulted only in cases where the Party has elected the 
activity wetland drainage and rewetting and in cases where the Party applies 
methods from the Wetlands Supplement on a voluntary basi s. This adjustment 
method will be applicable only if activity data are available from national sources in 
accordance with paragraph 29 above or from international data sources as described 
in paragraph 31 above, or are obtained as described in paragraph 33  above. An 
emission factor or other inventory parameter as required by the method and obtained 
as described in paragraph 34 above should be used.   
14. Paragraphs 61, 64, 68, and 74 of the annex to decision 20/CMP.1 shall not apply for 
the purpose of the second  commitment period.  
15. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 63 of the annex to 
decision 20/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following paragraph:  
63. If adjusting hydrofluorocarbon (HFC), perfluorocarbon (PFC), nitrogen 
trifluoride (NF 3) and sulphur hexafluoride (SF 6) estimates from the consumption of 
halocarbons, NF 3 and SF 6, consideration should be given to the uncertainty of sales 
                                                           
 1 When wetland drainage and rewetting has been elect ed, the Wetlands Supplement should have the 
highest order of preference for applicable categories . FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
42  figures (e.g. for sales of these chemicals to the foam blowing industry) and other 
parameters (such as the co mposition of the mix in coolants) as given in the 2006 
IPCC Guidelines.  
16. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 69 of the annex to 
decision 20/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following:  
69. Estimates of emissions and removals in the LULUC F sector and from 
LULUCF activities may be based not on annual data but on extrapolations and may 
be recalculated at a later stage. For this reason, the application of an adjustment to 
the base year of cropland management, grazing land management, revegeta tion and 
wetland drainage and rewetting through an extrapolation should be done with care, 
given that data may not be reported for the years between the base year and the 
commitment period. If an extrapolation is needed for the base year of these 
activitie s, the expert review team could use as a driver the time series for the 
LULUCF sector included in the annual inventory submission under the Convention.  
17. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 1(a) of appendix III to 
the annex to decision  20/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following:  
1(a) For Annex A sources, one for use in the calculation of adjustments for an 
base year emission estimate and a commitment period recovery estimate (e.g. 
landfill gas recovery) and one for the calculation of a djustments of emissions for a 
year of the commitment period and base year’s recovery estimates.  
18. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 3 of appendix III to the 
annex to decision 20/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following:  
3. When a giv en category is not covered in the table, the provision of paragraph 
55 of the technical guidance applies, such as for categories “other” under energy, 
industrial processes and other product use, agriculture, LULUCF and waste.  
II. Procedures for adjustments und er Article 5, paragraph 2, of 
the Kyoto Protocol  
19. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 80(b) of the annex to 
decision 22/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following:  
80(b)  The adjustment procedure should only commence after the Party has  had an 
opportunity to correct a problem and if the expert review team finds that the Party 
has not adequately corrected the problem through the provision of an acceptable 
revised estimate, within the time frames set out in paragraphs 74 and 76 above and i f 
the expert review team assumes that the change resulting from the adjustment will 
be above the threshold given in paragraph 37 of the annex to decision 24/CP.19.  
III. Tables  of conservativeness factors  
20. For the purpose of the second commitment period, tables 1  to 4b in appendix III to 
the annex to decision 20/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the tables in the appendix.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 43 Appendix  
 Tables of conservativeness factors  
Table 1  
Conservativeness factors for adjustments to emission estimates in the base year or recovery estimates in the 
commitment period (for sources in Annex A to the Kyoto Protocol)  
 
  
CO 2 CH4 N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF3 CO 2 CH4 N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF3
1. Energy
A. Fuel combustion (sectoral approach)
     1. Energy industries 0.98 0.82 0.73 0.98 0.94 0.82 0.73
     2. Manufacturing industries and construction 0.98 0.82 0.73 0.94 0.94 0.73 0.73
     3.a  Domestic aviation and navigation 0.98 0.89 0.82 0.82 0.82 0.73 0.73
     3.b-c Road transport and railways 0.98 0.89 0.82 0.94 0.94 0.89 0.73
     4. Other sectors 0.98 0.82 0.73 0.94 0.94 0.73 0.73
     5. Other 0.98 0.82 0.73 0.82 0.94 0.73 0.73
     Biomass (all fuel combustion sources) 0.82 0.82 0.82 0.73 0.73
     Off-road vehicles 0.98 0.73 0.73 0.89 0.82 0.73 0.73
     Fuel combustion (reference approach) 0.98 0.98 0.98
B. Fugitive emissions from fuels
     1. Solid fuels 0.73 0.73 0.98 0.73 0.73
     2. Oil and natural gas 0.73 0.73 0.73 0.98 0.73 0.73 0.73
     C. CO 2 Transport and storage 0.82 0.98 0.73
2. Industrial processes and product use
     A. Mineral industry 0.94 0.94 0.94
     B. Chemical industry 0.98 0.73 0.89 0.89 0.82 0.82 0.82 0.94 0.94 0.73 0.89 0.89 0.73 0.73 0.73
     C. Metal industry 0.98 0.82 0.98 0.82 0.82 0.98 0.94 0.73 0.94 0.82 0.82
     D. Non-energy products from fuels
and solvent use0.89 0.94 0.82
     E. Electronics industry 0.73 0.73 0.73 0.94 0.73 0.73 0.73
     F. Product uses as substitutes for ozone depleting substances 0.82 0.82 0.82 0.82 0.82
     G. Other product manufacture and use 0.98 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.94 0.82 0.82
     H. Other
3. Agriculture
     A. Enteric fermentation 0.89 0.98 0.89
     B. Manure management 0.89 0.82 0.98 0.89 0.82
     C. Rice cultivation 0.89 0.94 0.89
     D. Agricultural soils 0.73 0.82 0.73
     E. Prescribed burning of savannas 0.94 0.94 0.82 0.82 0.82
     F. Field burning of agricultural residues 0.94 0.94 0.82 0.82 0.82
     G. Liming 0.98 0.94 0.94
     H. Urea application 0.89 0.94 0.82
     I. Other
5. Waste
     A. Solid waste disposal 0.89 0.89 0.82 0.73
     B. Biological treatment of solid waste 0.73 0.73 0.94 0.73 0.73
     C. Incineration and open burning of waste 0.89 0.82 0.89 0.82 0.73 0.73 0.73
     D. Wastewater treatment and discharge 0.89 0.89 0.98 0.82 0.82
     E. OtherActivity 
dataEmission estimates Emission factorsFCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
44  Table 2  
Conservativeness factors fo r adjustments to emission estimates in the commitment year or recovery estimates in 
the base year (for sources in Annex A to the Kyoto Protocol)  
 
 
 
 
 
  
CO 2 CH4 N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF3 CO 2 CH4 N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF3
1. Energy
A. Fuel combustion (sectoral approach)
     1. Energy industries 1.02 1.21 1.37 1.02 1.06 1.21 1.37
     2. Manufacturing industries and construction 1.02 1.21 1.37 1.06 1.06 1.37 1.37
     3.a  Domestic aviation and navigation 1.02 1.12 1.21 1.21 1.21 1.37 1.37
     3.b-c Road transport and railways 1.02 1.12 1.21 1.06 1.06 1.12 1.37
     4. Other sectors 1.02 1.21 1.37 1.06 1.06 1.37 1.37
     5. Other 1.02 1.21 1.37 1.21 1.06 1.37 1.37
     Biomass (all fuel combustion sources) 1.21 1.21 1.21 1.37 1.37
     Off-road vehicles 1.02 1.37 1.37 1.12 1.21 1.37 1.37
     Fuel combustion (reference approach) 1.02 1.02 1.02
B. Fugitive emissions from fuels
     1. Solid fuels 1.37 1.37 1.02 1.37 1.37
     2. Oil and natural gas 1.37 1.37 1.37 1.02 1.37 1.37 1.37
     C. CO 2 Transport and storage 1.21 1.02 1.37
2. Industrial processes and product use
     A. Mineral industry 1.06 1.06 1.06
     B. Chemical industry 1.02 1.37 1.12 1.12 1.21 1.21 1.21 1.06 1.06 1.37 1.12 1.12 1.37 1.37 1.37
     C. Metal industry 1.02 1.21 1.02 1.21 1.21 1.02 1.06 1.37 1.06 1.21 1.21
     D. Non-energy products from fuels
and solvent use1.12 1.06 1.21
     E. Electronics industry 1.37 1.37 1.37 1.06 1.37 1.37 1.37
     F. Product uses as substitutes for Ozone Depleting Substances 1.21 1.21 1.21 1.21 1.21
     G. Other product manufacture and use 1.02 1.12 1.12 1.12 1.06 1.21 1.21
     H. Other
3. Agriculture
     A. Enteric fermentation 1.12 1.02 1.12
     B. Manure management 1.12 1.21 1.02 1.12 1.21
     C. Rice cultivation 1.12 1.06 1.12
     D. Agricultural soils 1.37 1.21 1.37
     E. Prescribed burning of savannas 1.06 1.06 1.21 1.21 1.21
     F. Field burning of agricultural residues 1.06 1.06 1.21 1.21 1.21
     G. Liming 1.02 1.06 1.06
     H. Urea application 1.12 1.06 1.21
     I. Other
5. Waste
     A. Solid waste disposal 1.12 1.12 1.21 1.37
     B. Biological treatment of solid waste 1.37 1.37 1.06 1.37 1.37
     C. Incineration and open burning of waste 1.12 1.21 1.12 1.21 1.37 1.37 1.37
     D. Wastewater treatment and discharge 1.12 1.12 1.02 1.21 1.21
     E. OtherEmission factorsActivity 
dataEmission estimatesFCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 45 
CO 2 CH 4 N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF 3 CO 2 CH 4 N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF 3
4. Land use, land-use change and forestry
     A.1. Forest land remaining forest land
          Carbon stock change in living biomass0.89 0.98 0.89
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 0.73 0.98 0.73
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsb 0.73 0.94 0.73
     A.2. Land converted to forest land
          Carbon stock change in living biomass 0.89 0.94 0.89
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.82 0.94 0.82
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.94 0.82
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soils 0.73 0.94 0.73
     B.1. Cropland land remaining cropland
          Carbon stock change  in living biomass 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 0.73 0.98 0.73
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsb 0.82 0.94 0.82
     B.2. Land converted to crop land
          Carbon stock change in living biomass 0.82 0.94 0.82
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.82 0.94 0.82
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.94 0.82
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsb0.82 0.94 0.82
     C.1. Grassland remaining grass land
          Carbon stock change  in living biomass
               (Root-to-shoot ratio) 0.73 0.98 0.73
               (All other parameters) 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 0.73 0.98 0.73
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsb 0.82 0.94 0.82
     C.2. Land converted to grassland
          Carbon stock change  in living biomass
               (Root-to-shoot ratio) 0.73 0.94 0.73
               (All other parameters) 0.82 0.94 0.82
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.82 0.94 0.82
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.94 0.82
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsb0.82 0.94 0.82Emission factorsActivity 
dataEmission estimatesTable 3  
Conservativeness factors for net emissions for adjustments to the land use, land -use change and forestry sector 
during the initial review for the purpose of establishing a Party’s assigned amount under Article 3, paragraphs 7 
and 8, of the Kyoto Protocola FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
46   
Note : Entries are marked “NA” because Parties are either not required to report this category in the greenhouse gas 
inventories or are not required to include it in their national totals.  
Abbreviation:  NA = Not applicable.  
a  Net emissions include  net decreases in carbon stocks in individual carbon pools.  
CO 2 CH 4 N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF 3 CO 2 CH 4 N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF 3
     D.1. Wetlands remaining wetlands
     D.1.1  Peat extraction remaining peat extraction
         Carbon stock change in dead organic matter0.73 0.82 0.73
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.73 0.82 0.73
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.73 0.89 0.82 0.73 0.73
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soils 0.73 0.89 0.82 0.73 0.73
     D.1.2 Flooded land remaining flooded landc
     D.2. Land converted to wetlands
          Carbon stock change  in living biomass 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soils 0.73 0.94 0.73
     D.2.1  Lands converted to peat extraction
          Carbon stock change  in living biomass 0.73 0.82 0.73
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 0.73 0.82 0.73
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.73 0.82 0.73
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.73 0.89 0.82 0.73 0.73
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soils 0.73 0.89 0.82 0.73 0.73
     D.2.2 Land converted to flooded land
          Carbon stock change  in living biomass 0.82 0.89 0.82
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter NA 0.89
          Carbon stock change in litter NA 0.89
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils NA 0.89
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soils NA 0.89
     E.1. Settlements remaining settlements
          Carbon stock change  in living biomassd0.89 0.89 0.82
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 0.73 0.98 0.73
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.73 0.98 0.73
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsb0.82 0.98 0.82
     E.2. Land converted to settlements
          Carbon stock change  in living biomassd0.89 0.89 0.82
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 0.73 0.98 0.73
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.73 0.98 0.73
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsb0.82 0.94 0.82
     F.1. Other land remaining other landc
     F.2. Land converted to other land
          Carbon stock change  in living biomass 0.89 0.89 0.82
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.94 0.82
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsb0.82 0.94 0.82
Cross-cutting categories
     Direct N2O emissions from N inputs to managed soils 0.73 0.94 0.73
     Emissions and removals from drainage and rewetting and other 
management of organic and mineral soils 
          Drained organic soilse0.73 0.73 0.73 0.94 0.73 0.73 0.73
          Rewetted organic soils 0.73 0.73 NA 0.94 0.73 0.73
     Direct N2O emissions from N mineralization/immobilization 
associated with loss/gain of soil organic matter0.73 0.94 0.73
     Indirect N2O emissions from managed soils 0.73 0.94 0.73
     Biomass burning 0.82 0.82 0.82 0.89 0.73 0.73 0.73
     Harvested wood products 0.89 0.89 0.82Emission factorsActivity 
dataEmission estimatesFCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 47 b   In accordance with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)  2013 Supplement to the 2006 IPCC 
Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories: Wetlands  (chapter 2), the uncertainty f or drained organic soils is 20 per 
cent, and conservativeness factors are 0.94. The uncertainty for carbon dioxide (CO 2) emissions is higher than 150  per cent for 
drained and rewetted inland organic soils (conservativeness factors of 0.73) as presented in this table under “emissions and 
removals from drainage and rewetting”.  
c   No methodologies are available in the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories (hereinafter the 
2006 IPCC Guidelines).  
d   In accordance with the 2006 IPCC Guidelines, t he activity data for this subcategory (living biomass) is not land area but 
crown area or number of trees depending on the methodology.  
e   Information on CO 2 is also included here, although emissions/removals may be reported in the land use remaining in the 
same category and land converted to a new land use category.  
  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
48  Table 4  
Conservativeness factors for net removals for adjustments to the land use, land -use change and forestry sector 
during the initial review for the purpose of establishing a Party’s assigne d amount under Article 3, paragraphs 7 
and 8, of the Kyoto Protocola 
  
CO 2 CH 4 N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF 3 CO 2 CH 4N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF 3
4. Land use, land-use change and forestry
     A.1. Forest land remaining forest land
          Carbon stock change in living biomass1.12 1.02 1.12
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 1.37 1.02 1.37
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsb 1.37 1.06 1.37
     A.2. Land converted to forest land
          Carbon stock change in living biomass 1.12 1.06 1.12
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.21 1.06 1.21
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.06 1.21
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soils 1.37 1.06 1.37
     B.1. Cropland land remaining cropland
          Carbon stock change  in living biomass 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 1.37 1.02 1.37
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsb 1.21 1.06 1.21
     B.2. Land converted to crop land
          Carbon stock change in living biomass 1.21 1.06 1.21
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.21 1.06 1.21
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.06 1.21
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsb1.21 1.06 1.21
     C.1. Grassland remaining grass land
          Carbon stock change  in living biomass
               (Root-to-shoot ratio) 1.37 1.02 1.37
               (All other parameters) 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 1.37 1.02 1.37
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsb 1.21 1.06 1.21
     C.2. Land converted to grassland
          Carbon stock change  in living biomass
               (Root-to-shoot ratio) 1.37 1.06 1.37
               (All other parameters) 1.21 1.06 1.21
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.21 1.06 1.21
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.06 1.21
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsb1.21 1.06 1.21Emission factorsActivity 
dataEmission estimatesFCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 49  Note : Entries are marked “NA” because Parties are either not required to report this category in the greenhouse gas inventories or 
are not required to include it in their national totals.  
 Abbreviations:  NA = Not applicable.  
CO 2 CH 4 N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF 3 CO 2 CH 4N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF 3
     D.1. Wetlands remaining wetlands
     D.1.1  Peat extraction remaining peat extraction
         Carbon stock change (carbon stock change) in dead organic 
matter1.37 1.21 1.37
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.37 1.21 1.37
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.37 1.12 1.21 1.37 1.37
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soils 1.37 1.12 1.21 1.37 1.37
     D.1.2 Flooded land remaining flooded landc
     D.2. Land converted to wetlands
          Carbon stock change  in living biomass 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soils 1.37 1.06 1.37
     D.2.1  Lands converted to peat extraction
          Carbon stock change  in living biomass 1.37 1.21 1.37
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 1.37 1.21 1.37
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.37 1.21 1.37
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.37 1.12 1.21 1.37 1.37
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soils 1.37 1.12 1.21 1.37 1.37
     D.2.2 Land converted to flooded land
          Carbon stock change  in living biomass 1.21 1.12 1.21
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter NA 1.12
          Carbon stock change in litter NA 1.12
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils NA 1.12
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soils NA 1.12
     E.1. Settlements remaining settlements
          Carbon stock change  in living biomassd1.12 1.12 1.21
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 1.37 1.02 1.37
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.37 1.02 1.37
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsb1.21 1.02 1.21
     E.2. Land converted to settlements
          Carbon stock change  in living biomassd1.12 1.12 1.21
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 1.37 1.02 1.37
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.37 1.02 1.37
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsb1.21 1.06 1.21
     F.1. Other land remaining other landc
     F.2. Land converted to other land
          Carbon stock change  in living biomass 1.12 1.12 1.21
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.06 1.21
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsb1.21 1.06 1.21
Cross-cutting categories
     Direct N2O emissions from N inputs to managed soils 1.37 1.06 1.37
     Emissions and removals from drainage and rewetting and other 
management of organic and mineral soils 
          Drained organic soilse1.37 1.37 1.37 1.06 1.37 1.37 1.37
          Rewetted organic soils 1.37 1.37 NA 1.06 1.37 1.37
     Direct N2O emissions from N mineralization/immobilization 
associated with loss/gain of soil organic matter1.37 1.06 1.37
     Indirect N2O emissions from managed soils 1.37 1.06 1.37
     Biomass burning 1.21 1.21 1.21 1.12 1.37 1.37 1.37
     Harvested wood products 1.12 1.12 1.21Emission factorsActivity 
dataEmission estimatesFCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
50  a   Net removals include net decreases in carbon stocks in individual carbon pools.  
b   In accordance with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 2013 Supplement to the 2006 IPCC 
Guidelines for National Gr eenhouse Gas Inventories: Wetlands  (chapter 2), the uncertainty for drained organic soils is 20  per 
cent, and conservativeness factors are 1.06. The uncertainty for carbon dioxide ( CO 2) emissions is higher than 150  per cent for 
drained and rewetted inland organic soils (conservativeness factors of 1.37) as presented in this table under “emissions and 
removals from drainage and rewetting”.  
c   No methodologies are available in the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories (hereinafter the 
2006  IPCC Guidelines).  
d   In accordance with the 2006 IPCC Guidelines, the activity data for this subcategory (living biomass) is not land area, but 
crown area or number of trees depending on the methodology.  
e   Information on CO 2 is also included here, although emi ssions/removals may be reported in the land use remaining in the 
same category and land converted to a new land use category.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 51 Table 5  
Conservativeness factors for adjustments to land use, land -use change and forestry activities under Article 3, 
paragraphs 3 and 4, of the Kyoto Protocol: Conservativeness factors for removalsa in a year of the commitme nt 
period/emissionsa in the base yearb 
  
CO 2 CH 4 N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF 3 CO 2 CH 4 N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF 3
     Afforestation and reforestation (total)
          Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 0.89 0.94 0.89
          Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 0.89 0.94 0.89
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.82 0.94 0.82
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.94 0.82
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc0.73 0.94 0.73
          Harvest wood products 0.89 0.82 0.73
          (Land subject to natural disturbances)d
               Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 0.89 0.94 0.89
               Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 0.89 0.94 0.89
               Carbon stock change in litter 0.82 0.94 0.82
               Carbon stock change in dead wood 0.73 0.94 0.73
               Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.94 0.82
               Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc0.73 0.94 0.73
               Harvest wood products 0.89 0.82 0.73
     Deforestation (total)e
          Carbon stock change in above-ground biomassf0.73 0.94 0.73
          Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 0.82 0.94 0.82
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.94 0.82
               Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc0.82 0.94 0.82
          Harvest wood products 0.89 0.82 0.73
     Forest management (total)g
          Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 0.89 0.98 0.89
          Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 0.89 0.98 0.89
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 0.73 0.98 0.73
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.98 0.82
               Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc0.73 0.94 0.73
          Harvest wood products 0.89 0.82 0.73
          (Newly established forest(CEF-ne))g
               Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 0.89 0.94 0.89
               Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 0.89 0.94 0.89
               Carbon stock change in litter 0.82 0.94 0.82
               Carbon stock change in dead wood 0.73 0.94 0.73
               Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.94 0.82
               Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc0.73 0.94 0.73
               Carbon stock at harvestingh
               Harvest wood products 0.89 0.82 0.73
          (Harvested and converted forest plantations (CEF-hc))i
               Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 0.73 0.94 0.73
               Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 0.82 0.94 0.82
               Carbon stock change in litter 0.73 0.94 0.82
               Carbon stock change in dead wood 0.73 0.94 0.73
               Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.94 0.82
               Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc0.82 0.94 0.82
               Harvest wood products 0.89 0.82 0.73Emission factorsActivity 
dataEmission estimatesFCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
52   Note : Entries are marked “NA” because Parties are either not required to report this category in the greenhouse 
gas inventories or are not required to include it in their national totals.  
 Abbreviations:  NA = Not  applicable.  
CO 2 CH 4 N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF 3 CO 2 CH 4 N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF 3
Forest management (Land subject to natural disturbances)g,i0.73
          Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 0.82 0.94 0.82
          Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 0.82 0.94 0.82
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.94 0.82
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc0.89 0.94 0.82
          Harvest wood products 0.89 0.82 0.73
          Technical correctionj
     Cropland managementk
          Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 0.73 0.98 0.73
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.98 0.82
           Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc0.82 0.94 0.82
     Grazingland managementk
          Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 0.73 0.98 0.73
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 0.73 0.98 0.73
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc0.82 0.94 0.82
     Revegetationk
          Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 0.73 0.98 0.73
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.73 0.98 0.73
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 0.73 0.98 0.73
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc0.82 0.94 0.82
     Wetland drainage and rewettingk
          Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.73 0.73 0.73 0.94 0.73 0.73 0.73
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc0.73 0.73 NA 0.94 0.73 0.73
     Harvest wood products
          From afforestation/reforestation 0.89 0.82 0.73
          From deforestation 0.89 0.82 0.73
          From forest management 0.89 0.82 0.73
Cross-cutting categories
     Direct and indirect N2O emissions from N fertilization 0.73 0.94 0.73
     CH4 and N2O emissions from drained and rewetted organic soilsl
          Drained organic soilsl0.73 0.73 0.73 0.94 0.73 0.73 0.73
          Rewetted organic soilsl0.73 0.73 NA 0.94 0.73 0.73
     N2O emissions from N mineralization/immobilization due to 
carbon loss/gain associated with land-use conversions and 
management change in mineral soils0.73 0.94 0.73
     Greenhouse gas emissions from biomass burning (CO2, CH4, 
N2O)0.82 0.82 0.82 0.89 0.73 0.73 0.73Emission factorsActivity 
dataEmission estimatesFCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 53 a   Net emissions and removals include net increases and net decreases in carbon stocks in individual carbon pools 
(in a year during the commitment period and in the base year, respectively).  
b   For the base year, conservativeness factors given in th is table apply to cropland management, grazing land 
management, wetland drainage and rewetting and revegetation under Article 3, paragraph 4, of the Kyoto Protocol.  
c   In accordance with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 2013 Supplement to the 2006 IPCC 
Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories: Wetlands (chapter 2) , the uncertainty for drained organic soils is 
20 per cent, and conservativeness factors are 0.94/1.06. The uncertainty for carbon dioxide ( CO 2) emissions is higher 
than 150 per cent for drained and rewetted inland organic soils (conservativeness factors of 0.73/1.37) as presented in 
this table under “emissions and removals from drainage and rewetting”.  
d   In cases where adjustments are calculated for other variables related to this category in common reporting 
format (CRF) table 4(KP -I)A.1.1, the conservativeness factor for the specific pool should be applied. This applies, in 
particular, to the areas subject to natural disturbances in the year that it was first reported: bac kground levels, margins, 
the emissions in the inventory that can be excluded and subsequent removals in the inventory year. For salvage 
logging, the conservativeness factors for harvest wood products should apply.  
e   In cases where adjustments are calculated for other variables related to this category in CRF table 4(KP -I)A.2, 
the conservativeness factor for the specific pool should be applied. This applies, in particular, to the areas subject to 
natural disturbances in the year that it was first reported: bac kground levels, margins, the emissions in the inventory 
that can be excluded, and subsequent removals in inventory year. For salvage logging, the conservativeness factors for 
harvest wood products should apply.  
f   The same conservativeness factors apply for d eforested land previously reported under afforestation/reforestation 
and forest management and subject to natural disturbances.  
g   In cases where adjustments are calculated for other variables related to this category in CRF tables 4(KP -I)B.1, 
4(KP -I)B.1.1 an d 4(KP -I)B.1.2, the conservativeness factor for the specific pool should be applied.  
h   For all these cases, assume the uncertainties for the specific pool that are being adjusted.  
i   The conservativeness factors for deforestation were assumed for this activity.  
j   In cases where adjustments are calculated for the technical correction, the conservativeness factor for the specific 
pool should be applied.  
k   The uncertainty for activity data for the base year is 50  per cent, and the conservativeness factors are 0.89/1.12 . 
l   Information on CO 2 is also included here, although emissions/removals may be reported in the land use 
remaining in the same category and land converted to a new land -use category.  
  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
54  Table 6  
Conservativeness factors for adjustments to land use, land -use change and forestry activities under 
Article 3, paragraphs 3 and 4, of the Kyoto Protocol: Conservativeness factors for emissionsa in a 
year during the commitment period/ removalsa in the base y earb 
  
CO 2 CH 4 N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF 3 CO 2 CH 4N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF 3
     Afforestation and reforestation (total)
          Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 1.12 1.06 1.12
          Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 1.12 1.06 1.12
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.21 1.06 1.21
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.06 1.21
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc1.37 1.06 1.37
          Harvest wood products 1.12 1.21 1.37
          (Land subject to natural disturbances)d
               Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 1.12 1.06 1.12
               Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 1.12 1.06 1.12
               Carbon stock change in litter 1.21 1.06 1.21
               Carbon stock change in dead wood 1.37 1.06 1.37
               Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.06 1.21
               Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc1.37 1.06 1.37
               Harvest wood products 1.12 1.21 1.37
     Deforestation (total)e
          Carbon stock change in above-ground biomassf1.37 1.06 1.37
          Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 1.21 1.06 1.21
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.06 1.21
               Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc1.21 1.06 1.21
          Harvest wood products 1.12 1.21 1.37
     Forest management (total)g
          Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 1.12 1.02 1.12
          Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 1.12 1.02 1.12
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 1.37 1.02 1.37
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.02 1.21
               Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc1.37 1.06 1.37
          Harvest wood products 1.12 1.21 1.37
          (Newly established forest(CEF-ne))g
               Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 1.12 1.06 1.12
               Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 1.12 1.06 1.12
               Carbon stock change in litter 1.21 1.06 1.21
               Carbon stock change in dead wood 1.37 1.06 1.37
               Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.06 1.21
               Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc1.37 1.06 1.37
               Carbon stock at harvestingh
               Harvest wood products 1.12 1.21 1.37
          (Harvested and converted forest plantations (CEF-hc))i
               Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 1.37 1.06 1.37
               Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 1.21 1.06 1.21
               Carbon stock change in litter 1.37 1.06 1.21
               Carbon stock change in dead wood 1.37 1.06 1.37
               Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.06 1.21
               Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc1.21 1.06 1.21
               Harvest wood products 1.12 1.21 1.37Emission factorsActivity 
dataEmission estimatesFCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 55  Note : Entries are marked “NA” because Parties are either not required to report this category in the greenhouse gas 
inventories or are not required to include it in their national totals.  
 Abbreviations:  NA = Not applicable.  
CO 2 CH 4 N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF 3 CO 2 CH 4N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF 3
Forest management (Land subject to natural disturbances)g,i1.37
          Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 1.21 1.06 1.21
          Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 1.21 1.06 1.21
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.06 1.21
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc1.12 1.06 1.21
          Harvest wood products 1.12 1.21 1.37
          Technical correctionj
     Cropland managementk
          Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 1.37 1.02 1.37
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.02 1.21
           Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc1.21 1.06 1.21
     Grazingland managementk
          Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 1.37 1.02 1.37
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 1.37 1.02 1.37
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc1.21 1.06 1.21
     Revegetationk
          Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 1.37 1.02 1.37
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.37 1.02 1.37
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 1.37 1.02 1.37
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc1.21 1.06 1.21
     Wetland drainage and rewettingk
          Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.37 1.37 1.37 1.06 1.37 1.37 1.37
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc1.37 1.37 NA 1.06 1.37 1.37
     Harvest wood products
          From afforestation/reforestation 1.12 1.21 1.37
          From deforestation 1.12 1.21 1.37
          From forest management 1.12 1.21 1.37
Cross-cutting categories
     Direct and indirect N2O emissions from N fertilization 1.37 1.06 1.37
     CH4 and N2O emissions from drained and rewetted organic soilsl
          Drained organic soilsl1.37 1.37 1.37 1.06 1.37 1.37 1.37
          Rewetted organic soilsl1.37 1.37 NA 1.06 1.37 1.37
     N2O emissions from N mineralization/immobilization due to 
carbon loss/gain associated with land-use conversions and 
management change in mineral soils1.37 1.06 1.37
     Greenhouse gas emissions from biomass burning (CO2, CH4, N2O)1.21 1.21 1.21 1.12 1.37 1.37 1.37Activity 
dataEmission estimates Emission factorsFCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
56  a   Net emissions and removals include net increases and net decreases in carbon stocks in individual carbon pools (in a year 
during the commitment period and in the base year, respectively).  
b   For the base year, conservativeness factors given in this table apply to cropland mana gement, grazing land management, 
wetland drainage and rewetting, and revegetation under Article 3, paragraph 4, of the Kyoto Protocol.  
c   In cases where adjustments are calculated for other variables related to this category in common reporting format (CRF) 
table 4(KP -I)A.1.1, the conservativeness factor for the specific pool should be applied. This applies, in particular, to the areas 
subject to natural disturbances in the year that it was first reported: background levels, margins, the emissions in the inve ntory 
that can be excluded and subsequent removals in the inventory year. For salvage logging the conservativeness factors for harv est 
wood products should apply.  
d   The same conservativeness factors apply for deforested land previously reported under afforest ation/reforestation and 
forest management and subject to natural disturbances.  
e   In case s where adjustments are calculated for other variables related to this category in CRF table 4(KP -I)A.2, the 
conservativeness factor for the specific pool should be appli ed. This applies, in particular, to the areas subject to natural 
disturbances in the year that it was first reported: background levels, margins, the emissions in the inventory that can be 
excluded, and subsequent removals in the inventory year. For salvag e logging the conservativeness factors for harvest wood 
products should apply.  
f   In accordance with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 2013 Supplement to the 2006 IPCC 
Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories: Wetlands (chapter 2) , the uncertainty for drained organic soils is 20  per 
cent, and conservativeness factors are 0.94/1.06. The uncertainty for carbon dioxide ( CO 2) emissions is higher than 150  per cent 
for drained and rewetted inland organic soils (conservativeness factors o f 0.73/1.37) as presented in this table under “emissions 
and removals from drainage and rewetting”.  
g   In cases where adjustments are calculated for other variables related to this category in CRF table 4(KP -I)B.1, the 
conservativeness factor for the specific  pool should be applied.  
h   For all these cases, assume the uncertainties for the specific pool that are being adjusted.  
i   The conservativeness factors for deforestation were assumed for this activity. In cases where adjustments are calculated for 
other variabl es related to this category in CRF table 4(KP -I)B.1, the conservativeness factor for the specific pool should be 
applied.  
j   In case that adjustments are calculated for the technical correction, the conservativeness factor for the specific pool shoul d 
be appl ied. 
k   The uncertainty for activity data for the base year is 50  per cent, and the conservativeness factors are 0.89/1.12.  
l   Information on CO 2 is also included here, although emissions/removals may be reported in the land use remaining in the 
same category an d land converted to a new land -use category.  
8th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 57 Decision 5/CMP.11  
  Training programme for members of expert review teams 
participating in annual reviews under Article 8 of the Kyoto 
Protocol  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Having considered  decisions 22/CMP.1, 24/CMP.1, 8/CMP.5, 3/CMP.11 and 
4/CMP.11,  
 Recognizing  the importance of the training programme for members of expert 
review teams participating in annual reviews under Article 8 of the Kyoto Protocol, which 
builds on the training pro gramme for greenhouse gas inventory review experts under the 
Convention,  
1. Requests  the secretariat to update and implement the courses on national systems, 
application of adjustments, modalities for the accounting of assigned amounts under 
Article  7, paragr aph 4, of the Kyoto Protocol, review of national registries and information 
on assigned amounts, and review of activities under Article 3, paragraphs 3 and 4, of the 
Kyoto Protocol included in the training programme for members of expert review teams 
participating in annual reviews under Article 8 of the Kyoto Protocol, as outlined in the 
annex, to reflect any changes arising from the implementation of decisions 2/CMP.7 to 
4/CMP.7 and 1/CMP.8 and any other relevant decisions of the Conference of the Parties  
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol , including the consideration of 
requirements for Parties included in Annex I  without a quantified emission limitation and 
reduction commitment for the second commitment period under the Kyoto Pro tocol, and to 
implement the updated training programme as soon as possible, subject to the availability 
of financial resources, ensuring that the courses incorporate the rules and modalities 
applicable to the second commitment period under the Kyoto Protoc ol; 
2. Also requests  the secretariat to develop and implement the courses referred to in 
paragraph 1 above, if possible  in time for the first inventory review of the second 
commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol, emphasizing the priority for the developme nt 
of the course related to review of activities under Article 3, paragraphs 3 and 4, of the 
Kyoto Protocol;  
3. Further requests  the secretariat to continue the current practice of including, in its 
annual report on the technical review of greenhouse gas inve ntories reported by Parties 
included in Annex I  that are also Parties  to the Kyoto Protocol to the Subsidiary Body for 
Scientific and Technological Advice, information on the updated training programme, in 
particular information on examination procedures a nd the selection of trainees and 
instructors, in order for Parties to assess the effectiveness of the programme;  
4. Encourages  Parties included in Annex I to the Convention that are also Parties to the 
Kyoto  Protocol that are in a position to do so to provide  financial support for the 
implementation of the training programme referred to in paragraph 1 above;  
5. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraph 1 above;  
6. Requests that t he actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
58  Annex  
Training programme for members of expert review teams participating 
in annual reviews under Article 8 of the Kyoto Protocol  
I. Details of the training programme  
1. The courses of the training programme are intended to train members of expert 
review teams (ERTs) for the review of information submitted under Article 7 of the Kyoto 
Protocol. All training courses will be available online . For trainees without easy access to 
the Internet, courses will be distributed through electronic means; for courses that are 
facilitated by an instructor, trainees will communicate with the instructor by electronic 
means. At the request of a Party, the c ourses will also be made available for others 
interested in the review process, provided that this does not require additional resources. 
All courses will be available upon request to trainees year -round without facilitation by 
instructors.  
2. All training co urses will include an examination. Examination procedures will be 
standardized, objective and transparent. Examinations will take place online.  
3. New greenhouse gas (GHG)  inventory review experts  who successfully complete 
the relevant requirements  of the tra ining programme will be invited to participate in a 
centralized or in -country review, working alongside experienced GHG  inventory review 
experts.  
4. Experts who do not pass an examination for a course at the first attempt may retake 
the examination one additi onal time, provided that the expert has fulfilled all of the tasks 
assigned during the course in a timely manner and that the retake does not incur additional 
costs for the secretariat.  
5. Experts with relevant expertise will be invited to act as instructors for courses of the 
training programme, ensuring that their skills cover the subjects addressed in each course. 
They will provide advice and support by e -mail or other electronic means. The secretariat 
will seek to achieve a geographical balance among the i nstructors participating in the 
training programme.  
II. Courses of the training programme  
A. National systems  
Description:  This course covers guidelines for the review  of national systems under Article 
5, paragraph  1, of the Kyoto Protocol and related parts of gu idelines under Articles 7 and 8 
of the Kyoto Protocol.  
Preparation:  2016.  
Implementation:  2016 –2022.  
Target audience:  Lead reviewers, generalists and GHG  inventory review experts who have 
successfully completed the basic course for the technical review of GHG inventories of 
Parties included in Annex I to the Convention (Annex I Parties).  
Type of course:  E-learning, without instructor.  
Examination requirements and format:  New GHG  inventory  review experts  and new 
lead reviewers must pass the examination befor e participating in ERTs. Online 
examination.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 59 B. Application of adjustments  
Description:  This course covers decisions of the Conference of  the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and technical guidance on methodologies for 
adjus tments under Article 5, paragraph 2, of the Kyoto Protocol and related parts of 
guidelines under Articles 7 and 8 of the Kyoto Protocol.  
Preparation:  2016.  
Implementation:  2016 –2022.  
Target audience:  Lead reviewers, experienced GHG  inventory  review experts and GHG  
inventory review experts  who have successfully completed the basic course for the 
technical review of GHG inventories  of Annex I Parties.  
Type of course:  E-learning, facilitated by an instructor.  
Examination requirements and format:  New GHG  inventory review experts  and new 
lead reviewers must pass the examination before participating in ERTs. Online 
examination.  
C. Modalities for the accounting of assigned amounts under Article 7, 
paragraph 4  
Description:  This course provides guidance f or members  of ERTs reviewing  information 
provided in the initial report for the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol, the 
calculation of the assigned amount pursuant to Article 3, paragraphs 7 bis, 7 ter, 8 and 8 bis 
of the Kyoto Protocol, the co mmitment period reserve, and the national registries for 
conformity with the modalities for the accounting of assigned amounts under Article 7, 
paragraph 4.  
Preparation:  2016.  
Implementation:  2016 –2022.  
Target audience:  Members of ERTs  reviewing national r egistries and assigned amount 
information, generalists and lead reviewers.   
Type of course:  E-learning, without instructor.  
Examination requirements and format:  Examination required for new members of 
ERTs. Online examination.  
D. Review of national registries  and information on assigned amounts  
Description:  This course provides guidance for members  of ERTs  reviewing annual 
information on assigned amounts pursuant to Article 3, paragraphs 7 bis, 7 ter, 8 and 8 bis, 
of the Kyoto Protocol, information on Kyoto Protocol units and t he standard electronic 
format, for conformity with Article 7, paragraph 4, of the Kyoto Protocol . In addition, the 
course provides guidance on the review of national registries, including of changes in 
national registries reported by Pa rties in accordance with decisions 15/CMP.1, 1/CMP.8 
and 4/CMP.11 and of conformity with the technical standards for data exchange between 
registry systems.  
Preparation:  2016.  
Implementation:  2016 –2022.  
Target audience:  Members of ERTs  reviewing national r egistries and assigned amount 
information, generalists and lead reviewers.  
Type of course:  E-learning, facilitated by an instructor, subject to the availability of 
resources.  
Examination requirements and format:  New generalists, new lead reviewers and any 
new members of ERTs  who will review national registries and annual information on FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
60  assigned amounts must pass the examination before participating in ERTs. Online 
examination.  
E. Review of activities under Article 3, paragraphs 3 and 4, of the Kyoto 
Protocol  
Description:  This course provides guidance for members  of ERTs  reviewing  information 
provided during the commitment period for land use, land -use change and forestry 
(LULUCF) activities under Article 3, paragraphs 3 and 4, of the Kyoto Protocol for 
conformi ty with the requirements of decisions 2/CMP.7, 2/CMP.8 and 6/CMP.9, including 
procedures for adjustments under Article 5, paragraph 2, of the Kyoto Protocol.  
Preparation:  2016.  
Implementation:  2016 –2022.  
Target audience:  LULUCF inventory review experts and  lead reviewers.  
Type of course:  E-learning, facilitated by an instructor, subject to the availability of 
resources.  
Examination requirements and format:  All LULUCF inventory review experts and new 
lead reviewers must pass the examination before participat ing in ERTs. Online 
examination.  
8th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015  
     
GE.16 -01212(E)  
*1601212*   
 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting  
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  
  Report of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol on its eleventh 
session, held in Paris from 30 November to 13 December 2015  
Addendum  
  Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at 
its eleventh session  
Contents  
  Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  
Decision   Page 
  6/CMP.11  Guidance relating to the clean development mechanism  ................................ ...........   2 
  7/CMP.11  Guidance on the implementation of Article 6 of the Kyoto Protocol  ........................   7 
  8/CMP.11  Methodology for the collection of international transaction log fees in the  
biennium 2016 –2017  ................................ ................................ ................................ .  9 
  9/CMP.11  Capacity -building under the Kyoto Protocol  ................................ .............................   13 
  10/CMP.11  Technical review in 2016 of greenhouse gas inventories and initial reports for  
the second commitment period from Parties included in Annex I to the Convention  
that are also Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  ................................ ................................ .  14 
  11/CMP.11  Admini strative, financial and institutional matters  ................................ ....................   16 
  12/CMP.11  Programme budget for the biennium 2016 –2017  ................................ ......................   18 
Resolution  
  1/CMP.11  Expression of gratitude to the Government  of the French Republic  and the  
people of the city of Paris  ................................ ................................ ..........................   24 United Nations  FCCC /KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
 
 
  
Distr.: General  
29 January 2016  
 
Original: English  
FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
2  Decision 6/CMP.11  
  Guidance relating to the clean development mechanism  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol ,  
Recalling the provisions of Articles 3 and 12 of the Kyoto Protocol and decision 
1/CMP.6,  
Cognizant of decision 3/CMP.1 and subsequent guidance provided by the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol 
relating to the cle an development mechanism,  
I. General  
1. Welcomes the report for 2014 –2015 of the Executive Board of the clean 
development mechanism (hereinafter referred to as the Executive Board);1 
2. Commends  the Executive Board for the substantial work undertaken over the past 
year;  
3. Expresses  satisfaction  with the progress of the clean development mechanism of the 
Kyoto Protocol, which to date has been responsible for:2 
(a) Over 7,600 project activities being reg istered in over 95 countries;  
(b) Over 1,900 component project activities being included in over 280 
programmes of activities registered in over 75 countries;  
(c) Over 1.6 billion certified emission reductions being issued and over USD 300 
billion being invested ; 
(d) Over 5.7 million certified emission reductions voluntarily cancelled;  
(e) Over 32 million certified emission reductions being transferred through the 
share of proceeds to the Adaptation Fund;  
(f) Over USD 190 million of revenue for the Adaptation Fund from the sale of 
certified emission reductions;  
(g) Seventy -three loans under the clean development mechanism loan scheme 
being approved and over USD 6 million of total commitment;  
(h) Twenty -nine sustainable development co -benefit description reports being 
published using  the voluntary sustainable development tool;  
4. Welcomes  the launch of the online platform for voluntary cancellation of certified 
emission reductions;3 
5. Requests  the Executive Board and the secretariat to facilitate access to the section 
concerning sustainabl e development in the project and programme design documents of the 
project activities and programmes of activities on the online platform for voluntary 
cancellation of certified emission reductions referred to in paragraph 4 above;  
                                                           
 1 FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/5.  
 2 See document FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/5  and the UNFCCC CDM website at < http://cdm.unfccc.int/ >. 
 3 <https://offset.climateneutralnow.org/ >. FCCC/KP/CMP/ 2015/8/Add.2  
 3 6. Encourages  the Executive  Board to continue the simplification process of the clean 
development mechanism with the aim of further simplifying and streamlining the project 
cycle, the registration and verification process, the development and approval of 
standardized baselines, the methodological standards and procedures, and the accreditation 
procedure;  
7. Also encourages  the Executive Board to continue exploring options for using the 
clean development mechanism  as a tool for other uses and report back to the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  at its twelfth session 
(November 2016);  
8. Further encourages  the Executive Board to explore the opportunities for the 
financing of the clean development mechanism through international climate finan cing 
institutions, such as the Green Climate Fund, and report back to the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  at its twelfth session;  
9. Invites  the Executive Board, as part of the implementation of paragraph 8 above, to 
consider hosting an in -session workshop at the forty -fourth sessions of the subsidiary 
bodies (May 2016), taking into account paragraph 28 below;  
II. Accreditation  
10. Designates  as operational entities those entities that have been accredited, and 
provisionally designated, as operational entities by the Executive Board to carry out the 
sector -specific validation functions and/or sector -specific verification functions described 
in the annex;  
11. Requests  the Executive Board to analyse the need for measures to ensure the 
continued participation of designated operational entities in the clean development 
mechanism, in particular in the regions underrepresented in the clean development 
mechanism, taking into account paragraph 28 below;  
III. Baseline and monitoring m ethodologies  
12. Decides  to allow the submission of a request for the revision of a baseline and 
monitoring methodology without a draft project or programme design document in cases 
where the Executive Board considers that the assessment of such a request can be 
conducted without the project -specific information;  
13. Requests the Executive Board to implement paragraph 12 above by revising the 
relevant regulations;  
14. Encourages  the Executive Board to continue the development of digitized project 
and programme design d ocument forms for clean development mechanism project activities 
and programmes of activities;  
15. Requests  the Executive Board to develop more cost -effective and context -
appropriate approaches for monitoring, reporting and verification with a focus on project  
activities involving households and communities, addressing, inter alia:  
(a) Procedures to manage data gaps;  
(b) Regionally appropriate calibration requirements;  
(c) The use of sectoral and nationally collected data where appropriate;  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
4  16. Encourages  the Executive Board to continue its work related to the “Application of 
E-policy in investment analysis for additionality demonstration and selection of baseline 
scenario”,4 and to report back to the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the  
Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  at its twelfth session;  
17. Also encourages  the Executive Board to continue assessing methodologies in order 
to ensure environmental integrity and additionality;  
IV. Registration of project activities and programmes and 
issuance of c ertified emission reductions  
18. Requests  the Executive Board to develop stand -alone programme of activit ies 
guidance, consisting, inter alia, of a “ clean development mechanism programme of 
activities standard”, a “ clean development mechanism programme of acti vities validation 
and verification standard” and a “ clean development mechanism programme of activities 
cycle procedure”;  
19. Reiterates its request to the Executive Board, as contained in decision 4/CMP.10, to 
consider allowing, as an option, a simplified inc lusion process for activities that satisfy 
microscale thresholds and are considered automatically additional; this option shall allow 
for inclusion on the basis of a pre -approved standardized inclusion template of component 
project activities carried out d irectly by the coordinating/managing entity without prior 
validation through a designated operational entity;  
20. Requests  the Executive Board to consider developing a standardized registration 
template using objective criteria for activities that qualify as a utomatically additional;  
21. Encourages  the Executive Board to continue its efforts in communicating the 
sustainable development co -benefits of clean development mechanism project activities and 
programmes of activities to the public;  
22. Also encourages  the Execu tive Board to improve the user -friendliness of the 
existing sustainable development co -benefits tool;  
23. Requests  designated operational entit ies to confirm that request s for issuance of 
emission reductions are submitted only to the Executive Board;  
24. Also requests  the Executive Board to examine how the information specified in 
paragraph 12 of appendix D to decision 3/CMP.1 can be best made publicly available, and 
the implications thereof, and report back on this matter to the Conference of the Parties 
servi ng as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  at its twelfth session;  
V. Regional and subregional distribution  
25. Welcomes  the progress made in establishing and operating the regional collaboration 
centres to promote the clean development mechanism in r egions underrepresented in the 
mechanism and to support stakeholders at the regional and national levels;  
26. Requests  the Executive Board to expand, taking into account paragraph 28 below, 
the scope and scale of regional collaboration centres’  assistance acti vities in developing 
countries by exploring the emerging technical and methodological areas in the context of 
the clean development mechanism where specific assistance is identified as needed by the 
countries underrepresented in the mechanism;  
                                                           
 4 See annex 13 to the annotated agenda of the 79th meeting of the Executive Board . Available at 
<http://cdm.unfccc.int/EB/index.html >. FCCC/KP/CMP/ 2015/8/Add.2  
 5 VI. Resources fo r work on the clean development mechanism  
27. Expresses  its appreciation to the secretariat for having ensured the prudent 
management of its resources and deep gratitude to the staff that have left the secretariat for 
their enormous contribution to the clean d evelopment mechanism;  
28. Requests the Executive Board to ensure the transparent and prudent management of 
the resources of the clean development mechanism, including the spending for those 
serving on the Executive Board . 
 FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
6  Annex  
[English only]  
Designation of operational entities by the Conference of the Parties serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at its eleventh session  
Name of entitya Designated sectoral scopes  
(validation and verification)  
Carbon Check (India) Private Ltd. (Carbon Check)   
(formerly Carbon Check (Pty) Ltd.)b 1–5, 8–10, 13 and 14  
China Building Material Test  and Certification Group Co. Ltd. (CTC)c 1–4, 6, 9, 10 and 13  
China Certification Center Inc. (CCCI)c 1–15 
China Classification Society Certification Company (CCSC)d 1–10 and 13  
GHD Limited (GHD) (formerly Conestoga Rovers & Associates Limited)b 1, 4, 5, 8–10, 12 and 13  
Hong Kong Quality Assurance Agency (HKQAA)d 1 
KBS Certification Services Pvt. Ltd. (KBS)d 1, 3–5, 7, 9, 10, 12, 13 and 15  
a   This table does not include entities for which accreditation has been withdrawn for some or all sectoral scopes.  
b   Transfer of accreditation from another legal entity.  
c   Initial accreditation granted for five years.  
d   Reaccreditation granted for five years.  
8th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
 7 Decision 7/CMP.11  
Guidance on the implementation of Article 6 of the 
Kyoto  Protocol   
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Recalling the provisions of Articl es 3 and 6 of the Kyoto Protocol and decision 
1/CMP.6,  
Cognizant of decision 9/CMP.1 and subsequent guidance provided by the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol 
relating to joint implementation,  
1. Takes note  of the achievements of joint implementation in the period 2006 –2015, 
accounting for 548 Track 1 projects,1 52 Track 2 projects2 and over 871 million emission 
reduction units issued for emission reductions;  
2. Takes  note with appreciation  of the report of the Joint Implementation Supervisory 
Committee for 2014 –20153 and the status of work undertaken during its current term, in 
particular:  
(a) The elaboration of further recommendations on the review of the joint 
implementation guidelines submit ted to the Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its 
forty -second session;4  
(b) The decision  of the Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee  to allow 
designated operational entities accredited under the accreditation rules of the clean 
development mechanism  to act voluntarily as accredited independent entities under joint 
implementation while taking measures to safeguard environmental integrity;5  
3. Reiterates  its concern regarding the difficult market situation currently faced by 
participants in joint impleme ntation, with projects declining to a point where the 
mechanism is practically non -existent;  
4. Requests the Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee to submit 
recommendations for consideration by the Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its forty -
fourth s ession (May 2016) on actions that would be necessary to implement the draft joint 
implementation modalities and procedures,6 including changes to:  
(a) The rules of procedure of the Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee 
as adopted by decision 3/CMP.5;  
(b) Provisions under other decisions of the Conference of the Parties serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol relating to joint implementation;  
                                                           
 1 Decision 9/CMP.1, annex, paragraph 23.  
 2 The verification procedure under the Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee, defined in 
decision 9/CMP.1, annex, paragraphs 30 –45. 
 3 FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/4.  
 4 FCCC/SBI/2015/5 . 
 5 Report on the 37th meeting of the Joint Im plementation Supervisory Committee, paragraph 15. 
Available at < http://ji.unfccc.int/Sup_Committee/Meetings/index.html >. 
 6 FCCC/SBI/2015/L.30.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
8  5. Also requests the Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee to submit 
recommendations for consider ation by the Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its forty -
fourth session in the context of the review of the joint implementation guidelines, inter alia, 
on options to address:  
(a) Concerns raised by stakeholders;  
(b) Validation by an accredited independent ent ity of post -registration changes;  
6. Invites  Parties and admitted observer organizations to submit, by  31 March 2016, 
their views on experiences and lessons learned from joint implementation for the possible 
design of mitigation mechanisms and on links and interactions with other tools;7 
7. Requests  the Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee to reflect on synergies 
between joint implementation and other mitigation mechanisms to ensure the cost -efficient 
use of resources, the coherence of mitigation instrume nts and the avoidance of double 
counting, in particular regarding infrastructure and technical arrangements, tools, 
governance structures and processes;  
8. Also requests  the Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee to prepare an 
analysis of the experiences and lessons learned referred to in paragraph 6 above , taking into 
account the submissions referred to in the same paragraph and any other relevant materials, 
and to forward recommendations and the reflections of the Joint Implementation 
Supervisory Committ ee mentioned in paragraph 7 above for consideration by the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at its 
twelfth session (November 2016);  
9. Commends the Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee and the secreta riat for 
their prudent management of resources;  
10. Reiterates its request to the Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee to ensure 
sufficient infrastructure and capacity for the mechanism’s use by Parties for as long as 
needed, and to keep the joint implem entation management plan under review, making 
necessary adjustments to ensure the efficient, cost -effective and transparent functioning of 
joint implementation.  
8th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015
                                                           
 7 Parties should submit their views via the submissions portal at < http://www.unfccc.int/5900 >. 
Admitted observer organizations should e -mail their submissions to < secretariat@unfccc.int >. FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
 9 Decision 8/CMP.11  
  Methodology for the collection of international transaction 
log fees in the biennium 2016 –2017  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol ,  
 Recalling  Article 13, paragraph 5, of the Kyoto Protocol,  
 Also recalling decisions 11/CMP.3, 10/CMP.5, 9/CMP.6 and 8/CMP.8,  
 Recognizing  the importance of sufficient and stable funding for the international 
transaction log ,  
1. Adopts the scale of fees for the international transaction log for the biennium 2016 –
2017 contained in the annex;  
2. Decides that fees for the international transaction log paid by a Party for the 
biennium 2016 –2017 shall be calculated by multiplying  the scale of fees for that Party, as 
contained in the annex, by the budget for the international transaction log for the biennium 
2016 –2017, with the fees for the first year of the biennium being equal to the fees for the 
second year of the biennium;  
3. Requests  the Executive Secretary to notify Parties connected to the international 
transaction log in the biennium 2016 –2017 of the annual fees, calculated in accordance 
with paragraph 2 above, as early as possible and at least four months in advance of the 
relevant calendar year, where possible;  
4. Decides that, if a Party connects to the international transaction log for the first time 
or reconnects to it following disconnection during the biennium 2016 –2017, the scale of 
fees for that Party shall be that c ontained in the annex, or, for Parties not listed in the table 
contained in the annex, shall be made equal to 130 per cent of their Kyoto Protocol adjusted 
scale for the relevant biennium;  
5. Also decides  that fees paid by a Party that connects to the inte rnational transaction 
log for the first time shall be deducted from the resource requirement for activities relating 
to the international transaction log in the next biennium;  
6. Further decides  that fees paid by a Party that connects to the international 
transaction log for the first time or, following disconnection, reconnects to it during the 
biennium 2016 –2017, shall be proportioned for the period between the date of connection 
or reconnection of its registry and the end of the biennium, except for the period for which 
the fees were already paid;  
7. Decides  that, where a Party disconnects during the biennium 2016 –2017, the Party 
shall cover the fees for the full year in which the disconnection took place, and that, if the 
disconnection takes place in the  first year of the biennium and the Party does not reconnect 
in the second year of the biennium, fees for the second year of the biennium shall not apply;  
8. Authorizes  the international transaction log administrator to disconnect the registry 
of a Party f rom the international transaction log in the event of the non -payment of its fees 
by that Party, provided that such disconnection shall not be effected earlier than four 
months after the beginning of the relevant calendar year, at least two reminders have 
already been given to the Party and consultations have taken place with the Party concerned 
prior to the final reminder;  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
10  9. Also authorizes  the Executive Secretary to draw up funds from unspent balances 
(carry -over) of the Trust Fund for the International Transaction Log from previous financial 
periods to cover the potential shortfall in fees due to the disconnection of Parties during the 
biennium 2016 –2017;  
10. Requests the international transaction log administrator to provide, in its annual 
reports for 2 016 and 2017, information on transactions of Kyoto Protocol units;  
11. Also requests  the international transaction log administrator to publish, in its annual 
reports, a table listing the scale and the level of fees and the status of payments for all 
Parti es connected to the international transaction log.  
 FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
 11 Annex  
[English only]  
Scale of fees for the international transaction log for the biennium 
2016–2017  
Party  Scale of fees  
(per cent)  
Australia  2.841  
Austria  1.588  
Belarusa 0.073  
Belgium  1.973  
Bulgaria  0.036  
Croatia  0.079  
Cyprusa 0.061  
Czech Republic  0.503  
Denmark  1.323  
Estonia  0.028  
European Union  2.685  
Finland  1.009  
France  10.667  
Germany  15.350  
Greece  1.065  
Hungary  0.437  
Iceland  0.737  
Ireland  0.797  
Italy 9.090  
Japan  14.939  
Kazakhstana 0.157  
Latvia  0.032  
Liechtenstein  0.188  
Lithuania  0.055  
Luxembourg  0.153  
Maltaa 0.021  
Monaco  0.181  
Netherlands  3.352  
New Zealand  0.961  
Norway  2.319  
Poland  0.896  
Portugal  0.943  
Romania  0.125  
Russian Federation  2.743  
Slovakia  0.113  
Slovenia  0.171  
Spain  5.311  
Sweden  1.917  
Switzerland  2.760  
Ukraine  0.745  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
12  Party  Scale of fees  
(per cent)  
United Kingdom of Great Britain  
and Northern Ireland  11.888  
Subtotal for Parties connected to the international transaction 
log 100.000  
Subtotal for Parties not connected to the international 
transaction log  0.312  
Total  100.312  
a   Parties currently not connected to the international transaction log.  
8th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
 13 Decision 9/CMP.11  
  Capacity -building under the Kyoto Protocol  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
 Recalling  decisions 29/CMP .1, 6/CMP.2, 6/CMP.4, 15/CMP.7, 10/CMP.8, 2/CP.7  
and 2/CP.17 , 
1. Requests the Subsidiary  Body for Implementation to conduct the third 
comprehensive review of the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in 
developing countries,  established under decision 2/CP.7  and reaffirmed under decision 
29/CMP.1,  at its forty -fourth  session (May 2016), on the basis of the terms of reference 
contained in the annex to decision 14/CP.21, with a view to recommending a draft decision 
for consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties  serving as the meeting of 
the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  at its twelfth session (November 2016);  
2. Decides  that the 5th meeting of the Durban Forum, to be held during the forty -fourth 
session of the Subsidiary Bod y for Implementation, will explore potential ways for 
enhancing capacity -building by sharing information and varied experiences related to the 
Kyoto Protocol;  
3. Invites  Parties to submit via the submissions  portal ,1 by 9 March 2016, as part of 
their annual s ubmissions pursuant to decision 6/CMP.2 , suggestions for additional potential 
topics related to the Kyoto Protocol for the 5th meeting of the Durban Forum.  
8th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015
                                                           
 1  <http://www.unfccc.int/5900 >. FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
14  Decision 10/CMP.11  
  Technical review in 2016 of greenhouse gas inventories and 
initial reports for the second commitment period from 
Parties included in Annex I to the Convention that are also 
Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Recalling  decisions 13/CMP.1, 22/CMP.1, 2/CMP.8 and 6/CMP.9,  
Emphasizing the importance of ensuring that the Conference of the Parties serving 
as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol has adequate and reliable information on 
annual greenhouse gas inventories from Parties included in Annex I to the Convention that 
are also Parties to the Kyoto Protocol (Parties included in Annex I),  
Noting  that owing to a delay in the availability of a functioning CRF Reporter and 
pending the finalization of the full set of accounting, reporting and review modalities under 
Articles 5, 7 and 8 of the Kyoto Protocol, Parties included in Annex I were unable to 
submit in 2015 some of the information required under Article 7, paragraph 1, of the Kyoto 
Protocol, or their reports to facilitate the calculation of the assigned amount for the second 
commitment period pursuant to Article 3, paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 8 bis , of the Kyoto 
Protocol, and to demonstrate capacity to account for emissions and the assigned amount ,1  
Also noting the revised modalities for accounting, reporting and review under 
Articles 5, 7 and 8 of the Kyoto Protocol for the purposes of the impleme ntation of the 
second commitment period contained in decisions 3/CMP.112 and 4/CMP.11 ,3  
Expressing  the concern that additional work will be needed to ensure that all 2015 
greenhouse gas inventories undergo the review process stipulated in decision 13/CP.2 0 and 
other relevant decisions, such as those relating to the review processes under the Kyoto 
Protocol, and that meeting the mandated timelines of the review process may be 
challenging because of this additional work,  
1. Requests the secretariat to organize  the review of the 2015 and 2016 greenhouse gas 
inventory submissions from Parties included in Annex I to the Convention that are also 
Parties to the Kyoto Protocol (Parties included in Annex I) , including the review of the 
supplementary information submit ted under Article 7, paragraph 1, of the Kyoto Protocol, 
in conjunction with each other and with the review of those inventory submissions under 
the Convention;  
2. Also requests  the secretariat to organize, in accordance with decisions 2/CMP.8 and 
4/CMP.11 ,3 the review of the reports to facilitate the calculation of the assigned amount for 
                                                           
 1  Ukraine was the only Party in 2015 that submitted its initial report for the second commitment period 
(on 14 August 201 5). 
 2 Decision  3/CMP.11“Implications of the implementation of decisions 2/CMP.7 to 4/CMP.7 and 
1/CMP.8 on the previous decisions on methodological issues related to the Kyoto Protocol, including 
those relating to Articles 5, 7 and 8 of the Kyoto Protocol, part I: implic ations related to accounting 
and reporting and other related issues”.  
 3 Decision 4/CMP.11  “Implications of the implementation of decisions 2/CMP.7 to 4/CMP.7 and 
1/CMP.8 on the previous decisions on methodological issues related to the Kyoto Protocol incl uding 
those relating to Articles 5, 7 and 8 of the Kyoto Protocol, part II: implications related to review and 
adjustments and other related issues”.    FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
 15 the second commitment period in conjunction with the reviews referred to in paragraph 1 
above, striving to complete each review no later than one year after the submission d ate of 
the report;  
3. Further requests the secretariat to continue to make improvements to the CRF 
Reporter functionality, prioritizing the resolution of outstanding issues related to 
transparency and accuracy, noting that the CRF Reporter is not yet fully fu nctioning;  
4. Invites  Parties included in Annex I that have not yet submitted their 2015 
greenhouse gas inventories and supplementary information required under Article 7, 
paragraph 1, of the Kyoto Protocol to do so as soon as possible;  
5. Takes note  of the esti mated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat pursuant to the provisions contained in paragraphs 1 and 2 above;  
6. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the avail ability of financial resources.  
8th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
16  Decision 11/CMP.11  
  Administrative, financial and institutional matters  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol ,  
Recalling Article 13, paragraph 5, of the Kyoto Protocol,  
Also recalling decision 27/CP.19, in particular paragraph 11,  
Further recalling paragraph 11 of the financial procedures of the Conference of the 
Parties, which also applies to the Kyoto Protocol,1 
Taking note of decision 21/CP.21,  
Having considered the information contained in the documents prepared by the 
secretariat on administrat ive, financial and institutional matters,2 
I. Budget performance for the biennium 2014 –2015  
1. Takes note  of the information contained in the report on budget performance for the 
period 1 January 2014 to 30 June 20153 and the status of contributions to the trust  funds 
administered by the secretariat as at 15 November 2015;4 
2. Welcomes the Executive Secretary’s efforts to address budgetary limits by 
enhancing effectiveness and efficiency, including reducing staffing costs through post 
management;  
3. Expresses  appreciat ion to Parties that have made contributions to the core budget 
and the international transaction log5 in a timely manner;  
4. Urges  Parties that have not made contributions to the core budget and the 
international transaction log6 in full for the current and/ or previous bienniums to do so 
without delay ; 
5. Calls upon  Parties to make their contributions to the core budget and the 
international transaction log for the biennium 2016 –2017 in a timely manner, bearing in 
mind that contributions are due on 1 January of each year in accordance with the financial 
procedures of  the Conference of the Parties;  
6. Expresses appreciation  for the contributions received from Parties to the Trust Fund 
for Participation in the UNFCCC Process and to the Trust Fund for Supplementary 
Activities;  
7. Urges  Parties to contribute further to the Trust Fund for Participation in the 
UNFCCC Process, in order to ensure the widest possible participation in the negotiations in 
2016, and to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities;  
                                                           
 1 Decision 15/CP.1, annex I, as revised by decision 23/CP.20 . 
 2 FCCC/SBI/2015/13, FCCC/SBI/2015/INF.10  and FCCC/SBI/2015/INF.17 . 
 3 FCCC/SBI/2015/13.  
 4 FCCC/SBI/2015/INF.17.  
 5 FCCC/SBI/2015/ INF.17, table 7.  
 6 As footnote 5 above .  FCCC/KP/CMP/20 15/8/Add.2  
 17 8. Reiterates  its appreciation  to the Government of Germany for its annual voluntary 
contribution to the core budget of EUR 766,938 and its special contribution of EUR 
1,789,522 as Host Government of the secretariat;  
II. Audit report and financial statements for 2014  
9. Takes note  of the audit rep ort of the United Nations Board of Auditors,7 which 
includes recommendations and the financial statements for 2014, and the comments of the 
secretariat thereon ; 
10. Expresses its appreciation  to the United Nations for arranging the audits of the 
accounts of th e Convention and for the valuable observations and recommendations of the 
auditors;  
11. Urges the Executive Secretary to implement the recommendations of the auditors, as 
appropriate.  
8th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015  
                                                           
 7 FCCC/SBI/2015/INF.10.   FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
18  Decision 12/CMP.11  
  Programme budget for the biennium 2016 –2017  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol ,  
Recalling  Article 13, paragraph 5, of the Kyoto Protocol,  
Also recalling decision 8/CMP.11 on the methodology for the collection of 
international transaction log fees in the biennium 2016 –2017 , 
Taking note  of decision 22/CP.21, in particular paragraph 1 , 
Having considered  the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2016 –2017 
submitted by the Executive Secretary,1 
1. Endorses  decision 22/CP.21 on the programme budget for the biennium 2016 –2017 
as it applies to the Kyoto Protocol ;2 
2. Adopts  the indicativ e scale of contributions for 2016 and 2017 contained in annex I, 
covering 28.8 per cent of the indicative contributions specified in table 1 of 
decision  22/CP.21;  
3. Invites  all Parties to the Kyoto Protocol to note that contributions to the core budget 
are due on 1 January of each year in accordance with paragraph 8(b) of the financial 
procedures for the Conference of the Parties, its subsidiary bodies and the secretariat,3 and 
to pay promptly and in full for each of the years 2016 and 2017 the contributions required 
to finance the approved expenditures set out in decision 22/CP.21;  
4. Takes note  of the financing requirements for the clean development mechanism and 
joint imp lementation proposed by the Executive Board of the clean development 
mechanism and the Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee, respectively;4 
5. Approves  the budget for the international transaction log for the biennium 2016 –
2017, amounting to EUR 5,35 1,356 for the purposes specified in the proposed budget for 
the international transaction log;5 
6. Decides  to maintain the level of the working capital reserve at 8.3 per cent of the 
estimated expenditure for the Trust Fund for the International Transactio n Log;  
7. Adopts the fees for the international transaction log for the biennium 2016 –2017 as 
contained in annex II.  
 
                                                           
 1 FCCC/SBI/2015/3.  
 2 Recognizes that, in accordance with decision 13/CP.20, three operational ap proaches may be used for 
implementing the technical review of the greenhouse gas inventories of Parties included in Annex I to 
the Convention, namely desk reviews, centralized reviews and in -country reviews, assuming available 
resources, and recognizes tha t the secretariat may implement such reviews according to decision 
13/CP.20 in 2016 –2017, taking into account the programme budget and supplementary resources 
provided for under this decision.  
 3 Decision 15/CP.1, annex I, as revised by decision 23/CP.20.  
 4 FCCC/SBI/2015/3/Add.1.  
 5 FCCC/SBI/2015/3/Add.3.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
 19 Annex I  
[English only]  
Indicative scale of contributions from Parties to the Kyoto Protocol for 
the biennium 2016 –2017  
Party  United Nations scale of 
assessments for 2015  Kyoto Protocol adjusted 
scale for 2016  Kyoto Protocol adjusted 
scale for 2017  
Afghanistan  0.005  0.007  0.007  
Albania  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Algeria  0.137  0.178  0.178  
Angola  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Antigua and Barbuda  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Argentina  0.432  0.562  0.562  
Armenia  0.007  0.009  0.009  
Australia  2.074  2.696  2.696  
Austria  0.798  1.037  1.037  
Azerbaijan  0.040  0.052  0.052  
Bahamas  0.017  0.022  0.022  
Bahrain  0.039  0.051  0.051  
Bangladesh  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Barbados  0.008  0.010  0.010  
Belarus  0.056  0.073  0.073  
Belgium  0.998  1.297  1.297  
Belize  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Benin  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Bhutan  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Bolivia (Plurinational State of)  0.009  0.012  0.012  
Bosnia and Herzegovina  0.017  0.022  0.022  
Botswana  0.017  0.022  0.022  
Brazil  2.934  3.814  3.814  
Brunei Darussalam  0.026  0.034  0.034  
Bulgaria  0.047  0.061  0.061  
Burkina Faso  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Burundi  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Cabo Verde  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Cambodia  0.004  0.005  0.005  
Cameroon  0.012  0.016  0.016  
Central African Republic  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Chad  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Chile  0.334  0.434  0.434  
China  5.148  6.693  6.693  
Colombia  0.259  0.337  0.337  
Comoros  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Congo  0.005  0.007  0.007  
Cook Islands  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Costa Rica  0.038  0.049  0.049  
Côte d’Ivoire  0.011  0.014  0.014  
Croatia  0.126  0.164  0.164  
Cuba  0.069  0.090  0.090  
Cyprus  0.047  0.061  0.061  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
20  Party  United Nations scale of 
assessments for 2015  Kyoto Protocol adjusted 
scale for 2016  Kyoto Protocol adjusted 
scale for 2017  
Czech Republic  0.386  0.502  0.502  
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea  0.006  0.008  0.008  
Democratic Republic of the Congo  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Denmark  0.675  0.878  0.878  
Djibouti  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Dominica  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Dominican Republic  0.045  0.059  0.059  
Ecuador  0.044  0.057  0.057  
Egypt  0.134  0.174  0.174  
El Salvador  0.016  0.021  0.021  
Equatorial Guinea  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Eritrea  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Estonia  0.040  0.052  0.052  
Ethiopia  0.010  0.013  0.013  
European Union  2.500  2.500  2.500  
Fiji 0.003  0.004  0.004  
Finland  0.519  0.675  0.675  
France  5.593  7.271  7.271  
Gabon  0.020  0.026  0.026  
Gambia  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Georgia  0.007  0.009  0.009  
Germany  7.141  9.284  9.284  
Ghana  0.014  0.018  0.018  
Greece  0.638  0.829  0.829  
Grenada  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Guatemala  0.027  0.035  0.035  
Guinea  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Guinea -Bissau  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Guyana  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Haiti  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Honduras  0.008  0.010  0.010  
Hungary  0.266  0.346  0.346  
Iceland  0.027  0.035  0.035  
India  0.666  0.866  0.866  
Indonesia  0.346  0.450  0.450  
Iran (Islamic Republic of )  0.356  0.463  0.463  
Iraq 0.068  0.088  0.088  
Ireland  0.418  0.543  0.543  
Israel  0.396  0.515  0.515  
Italy 4.448  5.783  5.783  
Jamaica  0.011  0.014  0.014  
Japan  10.833  14.083  14.083  
Jordan  0.022  0.029  0.029  
Kazakhstan  0.121  0.157  0.157  
Kenya  0.013  0.017  0.017  
Kiribati  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Kuwait  0.273  0.355  0.355  
Kyrgyzstan  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Lao People’s Democratic Republic  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Latvia  0.047  0.061  0.061  
Lebanon  0.042  0.055  0.055  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
 21 Party  United Nations scale of 
assessments for 2015  Kyoto Protocol adjusted 
scale for 2016  Kyoto Protocol adjusted 
scale for 2017  
Lesotho  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Liberia  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Libya  0.142  0.185  0.185  
Liechtenstein  0.009  0.012  0.012  
Lithuania  0.073  0.095  0.095  
Luxembourg  0.081  0.105  0.105  
Madagascar  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Malawi  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Malaysia  0.281  0.365  0.365  
Maldives  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Mali  0.004  0.005  0.005  
Malta  0.016  0.021  0.021  
Marshall Islands  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Mauritania  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Mauritius  0.013  0.017  0.017  
Mexico  1.842  2.395  2.395  
Micronesia (Federated States of)  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Monaco  0.012  0.016  0.016  
Mongolia  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Montenegro  0.005  0.007  0.007  
Morocco  0.062  0.081  0.081  
Mozambique  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Myanmar  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Namibia  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Nauru  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Nepal  0.006  0.008  0.008  
Netherlands  1.654  2.150  2.150  
New Zealand  0.253  0.329  0.329  
Nicaragua  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Niger  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Nigeria  0.090  0.117  0.117  
Niue  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Norway  0.851  1.106  1.106  
Oman  0.102  0.133  0.133  
Pakistan  0.085  0.111  0.111  
Palau  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Panama  0.026  0.034  0.034  
Papua New Guinea  0.004  0.005  0.005  
Paraguay  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Peru 0.117  0.152  0.152  
Philippines  0.154  0.200  0.200  
Poland  0.921  1.197  1.197  
Portugal  0.474  0.616  0.616  
Qatar  0.209  0.272  0.272  
Republic of Korea  1.994  2.592  2.592  
Republic of Moldova  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Romania  0.226  0.294  0.294  
Russian Federation  2.438  3.170  3.170  
Rwanda  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Saint Kitts and Nevis  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Saint Lucia  0.001  0.001  0.001  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
22  Party  United Nations scale of 
assessments for 2015  Kyoto Protocol adjusted 
scale for 2016  Kyoto Protocol adjusted 
scale for 2017  
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Samoa  0.001  0.001  0.001  
San Marino  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Sao Tome and Principe  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Saudi Arabia  0.864  1.123  1.123  
Senegal  0.006  0.008  0.008  
Serbia  0.040  0.052  0.052  
Seychelles  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Sierra Leone  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Singapore  0.384  0.499  0.499  
Slovakia  0.171  0.222  0.222  
Slovenia  0.100  0.130  0.130  
Solomon Islands  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Somalia  0.001  0.001  0.001  
South Africa  0.372  0.484  0.484  
Spain  2.973  3.865  3.865  
Sri Lanka  0.025  0.033  0.033  
Sudan  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Suriname  0.004  0.005  0.005  
Swaziland  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Sweden  0.960  1.248  1.248  
Switzerland  1.047  1.361  1.361  
Syrian Arab Republic  0.036  0.047  0.047  
Tajikistan  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Thailand  0.239  0.311  0.311  
The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia  0.008  0.010  0.010  
Timor -Leste  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Togo  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Tonga  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Trinidad and Tobago  0.044  0.057  0.057  
Tunisia  0.036  0.047  0.047  
Turkey  1.328  1.726  1.726  
Turkmenistan  0.019  0.025  0.025  
Tuvalu  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Uganda  0.006  0.008  0.008  
Ukraine  0.099  0.129  0.129  
United Arab Emirates  0.595  0.774  0.774  
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland  5.179  6.733  6.733  
United Republic of Tanzania  0.009  0.012  0.012  
Uruguay  0.052  0.068  0.068  
Uzbekistan  0.015  0.020  0.020  
Vanuatu  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)  0.627  0.815  0.815  
Viet Nam  0.042  0.055  0.055  
Yemen  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Zambia  0.006  0.008  0.008  
Zimbabwe  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Total  77.506  100.000  100.000  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
 23 Annex II  
[English only]  
Fees for the international transaction log for the biennium 2016 –2017  
Party  Fees  
for 2016  
(EUR)  Fees  
for 2017  
(EUR)  Scale of fees  
for 2016–2017a 
(per cent)  
Australia  76 016  76 016  2.841  
Austria  42 490  42 490  1.588  
Belgium  52 791  52 791  1.973  
Bulgaria  963 963 0.036  
Croatia  2 114  2 114  0.079  
Czech Republic  13 459  13 459  0.503  
Denmark  35 399  35 399  1.323  
Estonia  749 749 0.028  
European Union  71 842  71 842  2.685  
Finland  26 998  26 998  1.009  
France  285 415  285 415  10.667  
Germany  410 716  410 716  15.350  
Greece  28 496  28 496  1.065  
Hungary  11 693  11 693  0.437  
Iceland  19 720  19 720  0.737  
Ireland  21 325  21 325  0.797  
Italy 243 219  243 219  9.090  
Japan  399 718  399 718  14.939  
Latvia  856 856 0.032  
Liechtenstein  5 030  5 030  0.188  
Lithuania  1 472  1 472 0.055  
Luxembourg  4 094  4 094  0.153  
Monaco  4 843  4 843  0.181  
Netherlands  89 689  89 689  3.352  
New Zealand  25 713  25 713  0.961  
Norway  62 049  62 049  2.319  
Poland  23 974  23 974  0.896  
Portugal  25 232  25 232  0.943  
Romania  3 345  3 345  0.125  
Russian Federation  73 394  73 394  2.743  
Slovakia  3 024  3 024  0.113  
Slovenia  4 575  4 575  0.171  
Spain  142 105  142 105  5.311  
Sweden  51 293  51 293  1.917  
Switzerland  73 849  73 849  2.760  
Ukraine  19 934  19 934  0.745  
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland  318 084  318 084  11.888  
Total  2 675 678  2 675 678  100.000  
a  As contained in decision 8/CMP.11 .  
8th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
24  Resolution 1/CMP.11  
  Expression of gratitude to the Government of the French 
Republic and the people of the city of Paris  
Draft resolution submitted by Morocco  
The Conference of the Parties and the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol , 
Having met  in Paris from 30 November to 11 December 2015 at the invitation of the 
Government of the French Republic,  
1. Express  their profound gratitude  to the Government of the Frenc h Republic for 
having made it possible for the twenty -first session of the Conference of the Parties and the 
eleventh session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Kyoto Protocol to be held in Paris;  
2. Request  the Gove rnment of the French Republic to convey to the city and people of 
Paris the gratitude of the Conference of the Parties and the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol for the hospitality and warmth 
extended to the participants.  
9th plenary meeting  
13 December 2015  
     
GE.16 -01211(E)  
*1601211*   
 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting  
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  
  Report of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol on its eleventh 
session, held in Paris from 30 November to 13 December 2015  
Addendum  
  Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at 
its eleventh session  
Contents  
  Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  
Decision  Page  
  1/CMP.11  Report of the Adaptation Fund Board  ................................ ................................ ........   2 
  2/CMP.11  Clarification of the text in section G (Article 3, paragraph 7 ter) of the Doha  
Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol  ................................ ................................ ............   4 
  3/CMP.11  Implications of the implementation of decisions 2/CMP.7 to 4/CMP.7 and  
1/CMP.8 on the previous decisions on method ological issues related to the  
Kyoto Protocol, including those relating to Articles 5, 7 and 8 of the Kyoto  
Protocol, part I: implications related to accounting and reporting and other  
related issues  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..............   5 
  4/CMP.11  Implications of the implementation of d ecisions 2/CMP.7 to 4/CMP.7 and  
1/CMP.8 on the previous decisions on methodological issues related to the  
Kyoto Protocol , including those relating to Articles 5, 7 and 8 of the Kyoto  
Protocol, part II: implications related to review and adjustments and other  
related issues  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..............   30 
  5/CMP.11  Training programme for members of expert review teams participating in  
annual reviews under Article 8 of the Kyoto Protocol  ................................ ...............   57  United Nations  FCCC /KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 
 
  
Distr.: General  
29 January 2016  
 
Original: English  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
2  Decision 1/CMP.11  
  Report of the Adaptation Fund Board  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Recalling decision  2/CMP.10, paragraph 4,  
Welcoming  the annual report of the Adaptation Fund Board,1 
Noting the limited resources in the Adaptation Fund given the  current prices of 
certified emission reductions, which affect its ability to fulfil its mandate,  
1. Welcomes  the financial pledges and contribution s made to the Adaptation Fund by 
the Governments of Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Sweden and the Walloon Region of 
Belgium, amounting to USD 77 million;  
2. Also welcomes  the adoption by the Executive Directors of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and D evelopment (the World Bank) of the amendments to the terms and 
conditions of services to be provided by the World Bank as trustee for the Adaptation Fund 
on an interim basis;2 
3. Notes  that, as at 30 June 2015, a total of USD 1.8 million in pledged contributi ons to 
the Adaptation Fund was outstanding;  
4. Also notes  the following information, actions and decisions relating to the 
Adaptation Fund contained in the report of the Adaptation Fund Board3 and the oral report 
made by the Chair of the Adaptation Fund Board  in December 2015:  
(a) The approval of the second phase of the readiness programme for direct 
access to climate finance, launched on 1 July 2015, and the approval of South –South 
cooperation grants for Burundi, Cabo Verde, Chad and Niger, totalling USD 244,447;  
(b) The approval of a pilot programme for regional projects/programmes;  
(c) Cumulative project and programme approvals reaching USD 318.6 million as 
at 30 June 2015;  
(d) Funds available for new funding approvals amounting to USD 129.9 million 
as at 30 June 2015;  
(e) The approval of 14 project/programme proposals, totalling USD 92.4 million, 
submitted by implementing entities, including 9 proposals submitted by national 
implementing entities totalling USD 54.1 million;  
(f) The cumulative receipts of USD 483.3 million into the  Adaptation Fund 
Trust Fund;  
(g) The approval of a streamlined accreditation process for small -sized entities 
with limited experience in managing projects worth more than USD 1 million;  
(h) Ongoing discussion on linkages between the Adaptation Fund and the Green 
Climate Fund;  
                                                           
 1 FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/2.  
 2 Decision 1/CMP.10, annex.  
 3  As footnote 1 above.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 3 (i) The accreditation of 20 national implementing entities that can access 
resources from the Adaptation Fund directly, including 3 entities accredited during the 
reporting period, and the accreditation of 5 regional implementing entities, includi ng 1 
accredited during the reporting period;  
5. Requests  the Adaptation Fund Board to continue its efforts to simplify accreditation 
procedures for national implementing entities and to report back on its progress to the 
Conference of the Parties serving as t he meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at its 
twelfth session (November 2016);  
6. Urges  the developed country Parties that responded to the fundraising target of the 
Adaptation Fund Board but have not yet made financial contributions to do so at thei r 
earliest opportunity;  
7. Encourages the provision of voluntary support that is additional to the share of 
proceeds from clean development mechanism project activities in order to support the 
resource mobilization efforts of the Adaptation Fund Board, with a  view to strengthening 
the Adaptation Fund;   
8. Recommends that the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties 
to the Paris Agreement, at its first session, consider that the Adaptation Fund may serve the 
Paris Agreement, in accordance wi th paragraphs 60 and 61 of decision 1/CP.21;   
9. Invites  the Conference of the Parties, at its twenty -second session (November 2016), 
to request the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris Agreement to undertake the necessary 
preparatory work concerning the issue r eferred to in paragraph 8 above and to forward a 
recommendation to the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to 
the Kyoto Protocol for its consideration and adoption no later than at its fifteenth session 
(November 2019);  
10. Notes with appreciation  the efforts of the Adaptation Fund Board secretariat to 
organize workshops for national implementing entities;  
11. Requests  the Adaptation Fund Board to provide in its reports to the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Par ties to the Kyoto Protocol further information 
on the status of the portfolio of the Adaptation Fund, including projects at different stages 
of development.  
9th plenary meeting  
13 December 2015FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
4  Decision 2/CMP.11  
  Clarification of the text in section G (Article 3, paragraph 7 
ter) of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol  
 The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeti ng of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
 Recalling  Article 3, paragraph 7 ter, of the Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol 
contained in annex I to decision 1/CMP.8 (the Doha Amendment),  
 Taking note  of the request from Kazakhstan to clarify the provision of Ar ticle 3, 
paragraph 7 ter, of the Doha Amendment,  
1. Clarifies  that Article 3, paragraph 7 ter, of the Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol 
contained in annex I to decision 1/CMP.8 (the Doha Amendment) is applicable, for the 
second commitment period, to Parties tha t did not have a quantified emission limitation or 
reduction commitment during the first commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol;  
2. Also clarifies that, for the purpose of implementing Article 3, paragraph 7 ter, of the 
Doha Amendment, the reference in Artic le 3, paragraph 7 ter, of the Doha Amendment to 
“average annual emissions for the first three years of the preceding commitment period” 
refers to the average of the annual emissions of a Party for the years 2008, 2009 and 2010, 
and that Parties with a quan tified emission limitation or reduction commitment inscribed in 
the third column of Annex B to the Kyoto Protocol contained in annex I to decision 
1/CMP.8 shall clarify, in their reports to facilitate the calculation of the assigned amount 
submitted pursua nt to decision 2/CMP.8, whether they have used, in the calculation of the 
average annual emissions for the first three years of the preceding commitment period:  
(a) The gases and sources listed in Annex A to the Kyoto Protocol; or  
(b) The same greenhouse gases, sectors and source categories as those used to 
calculate the assigned amount for the second commitment period;  
3. Decides  that, for a Party included in Annex I undergoing the process of transition to 
a market economy and without a quantified emission limitati on or reduction commitment in 
the first commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol, the positive difference between the total 
emissions during the second commitment period and the assigned amount adjusted in 
accordance with Article 3, paragraph 7 ter, of the Doha Amendment shall be added to the 
quantity of assigned amount units to be taken into account for the purpose of the 
assessment referred to in decision 13/CMP.1, annex, paragraph 14, and that the added 
quantity shall be limited to the quantity of assigne d amount units cancelled by that Party for 
the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol, in accordance with Article 3, 
paragraph 7 ter, of the Doha Amendment.  
8th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015  
 FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 5 Decision 3/CMP.11  
  Implications of the implementation of decisions 2/CMP.7 to 
4/CMP.7 and 1/CMP.8 on the previous decisions on 
methodological issues related to the Kyoto Protocol, 
including those relating to Articles 5, 7 and 8 of the Kyoto 
Protocol, part I: implications related to accounting and 
reporting and other related issues  
 The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Part ies to the 
Kyoto  Protocol , 
 Recalling  Articles 5, 7 and 8 of the Kyoto Protocol,  
 Also recalling  decisions 2/CMP.6, 2/CMP.7, 3/CMP.7, 4/CMP.7, 1/CMP.8 and 
2/CMP.8,  
 Being aware  of decisions 11/CMP.1, 13/CMP.1, 15/CMP.1, 16/CMP.1, 18/CMP.1, 
19/CMP.1 and 27/CMP.1,  
1. Decides  that, for the purpose of the second commitment period of the Kyoto 
Protocol and pending the entry into force of the Doha Amendment, contained in annex I to  
decis ion 1/CMP.8, any references in this decision and decision 2/CMP.8 to Annex A, 
Annex B, Article 3, paragraphs 1 bis, 1 ter, 1 quater, 7 bis, 7 ter, 8, 8 bis, 12 bis and 12 ter , 
and Article 4, paragraphs 2 and 3, unless otherwise specified, shall be understood as 
referring to those Articles and annexes as contained in the Doha Amendment, and that, 
upon the entry into force of the Doha Amendment, such references shall be read as 
references to the relevant Articles of the Kyoto Protocol as amended;  
2. Also decides  that, for the purpose of the second commitment period, decisions 
13/CMP.1, 15/CMP.1, 18/CMP.1 and 19/CMP.1 shall apply mutatis mutandis, except 
where otherwise specified in decisions 1/CMP.8 and 2/CMP.8 and in this decision;  
3. Clarifies  that, for the purpose of the second commitment period, unless otherwise 
specified in this decision, any references in decision 13/CMP.1 and in annexes I and II to 
Parties included in Annex I or to Parties shall be understood as referring to Parties included 
in Annex I with commitments inscribed in the third column of Annex B;  
4. Also clarifies  that, for the purpose of the second commitment period, unless 
otherwise specified in this decision, any ref erences in decision 13/CMP.1 and in annexes I 
and II to Parties included in Annex I or to Parties are not applicable to the Parties included 
in Annex I without quantified emission limitation and reduction commitments for the 
second commitment period;  
5. Deci des that, for the purpose of the second commitment period, the following 
changes shall apply to decisions 13/CMP.1 and 15/CMP.1:  
(a) All references to Article 3, paragraph 1, shall be read as references to Article 
3, paragraph 1 bis, except those in paragr aphs 12(e) and 47(h) of the annex to decision 
13/CMP.1;  
(b) All references to Article 3, paragraphs 7 and 8, shall be read as references to 
Article 3, paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 8 bis, except that in paragraph 4 of decision 13/CMP.1;  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
6  (c) All references to the  first commitment period shall be read as references to 
the second commitment period, except that in paragraph 3(e) of decision 15/CMP.1;  
(d) All references to activities under Article 3, paragraph 3, and elected activities 
under Article 3, paragraph 4, sh all be read as references to activities under Article 3, 
paragraph 3, forest management under Article 3, paragraph 4, and any elected activities 
under Article 3, paragraph 4;  
(e) All references to the Revised 1996 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse 
Gas Inventories  or to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Good Practice 
Guidance and Uncertainty Management in National Greenhouse Gas Inventories  in 
decision 15/CMP.1 shall be read as references to the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National 
Greenhouse Gas Inventories  (hereinafter referred to as the 2006 IPCC Guidelines), as 
implemented through the “Guidelines for the preparation of national communications by 
Parties included in Annex I to the Convention, Part I: UNFCCC reporting guidelines on 
annual gre enhouse gas inventories” and the 2013 Revised Supplementary Methods and 
Good Practice Guidance Arising from the Kyoto Protocol. References to chapter 7 of the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change  Good Practice Guidance and Uncertainty 
Management in Na tional Greenhouse Gas Inventories  shall be read as references to chapter 
4 of volume 1 of the 2006 IPCC Guidelines;  
(f) All references to decision 16/CMP.1 shall be read as references to decision 
2/CMP.7 and 6/CMP.9;  
6. Also decides  that, for the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 3(b) 
of decision 15/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following paragraph:  
 3(b) The Party concerned has failed to include an estimate for an Annex A source 
category (as defined in chapter 4 of volume I of the 2006 IPCC  Guidelines) that 
individually accounted for 7 per cent or more of the Party’s aggregate emissions, 
defined as the aggregate submitted emissions of the gases and from the sources 
listed in Annex A to the Kyoto Protocol, in the most recent of the Party’s re viewed 
inventories in which the source was estimated;  
7. Further decides  that decisions 14/CMP.1, 17/CMP.1 and 6/CMP.3 shall not apply 
for the purpose of the second commitment period;  
8. Decides  that Parties included in Annex I without quantified emission limit ation and 
reduction commitments for the second commitment period shall provide information on 
which voluntary activities under Article 3, paragraph 4, of the Kyoto Protocol they will 
include in their reporting, at the latest in their 2016 annual inventory submission;  
9. Adopts  the revisions to the modalities for the accounting of assigned amounts under 
Article 7, paragraph 4, of the Kyoto Protocol1 as set out in annex I;  
10. Recalls  that, pursuant to Article 4 of the Kyoto Protocol, each Party to an agreement 
to fulfil their commitments under Article  3 of the Kyoto Protocol shall jointly, in the event 
that the aggregate anthropogenic carbon dioxide equivalent emissions of the greenhouse 
gases listed in Annex A of the Parties to that agreement exceed their assigned amounts, be 
responsible for its own level of emissions as set out in that agreement;  
11. Decides that each of the Parties included in Annex I that have reached an agreement 
to fulfil their  commitments under Article 3 of the Kyoto Protocol jointly, in accordance 
with Article 4 of the Kyoto Protocol, shall  clarify in their reports, so as to facilitate the 
calculation of the assigned amount submitted pursuant to decision 2/CMP.8, how the 
infor mation listed in annex I to that decision, the application of Article 3, paragraph 7 ter, 
                                                           
 1 Decision 13/CMP.1, annex.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 7 including its technical implementation, and chapter VI of decision 1/CMP.8 are determined. 
Such clarification shall describe, in detail, methodologies and, if applica ble, any relevant 
assumptions applied by those Parties  for their joint fulfilment in relation to:  
(a) The application of paragraphs 23 –26 of decision 1/CMP.8;  
(b) The calculation of base year emissions in accordance with Article 3, 
paragraphs 5, 7 bis, 8  and 8 bis;  
(c) The calculation of those Parties’ assigned amounts in accordance with Article 
3, paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 8 bis, and the respective emission level allocated to each of the 
Parties as set out in the agreement pursuant to Article 4, paragraph 1;  
(d) The calculation of those Parties’ commitment period reserves in accordance 
with decision 11/CMP.1, decision 1/CMP.8, paragraph 18, and this decision;  
(e) The application and calculation pursuant to paragraph 13 in the annex of 
decision 2/CMP.7;  
12. Adopts the standard electronic format for reporting Kyoto Protocol units and the 
reporting instructions for the second commitment period contained in annex II for reporting 
in accordance with paragraph 11 of the annex to decision 15/CMP.1;  
13. Decides that each P arty included in Annex I with a quantified emission limitation or 
reduction commitment inscribed in the third column of Annex B shall annually report 
tables in a standard electronic format to the secretariat electronically; that any related 
information of a non -quantitative nature shall be submitted separately; and that, unless 
otherwise indicated, Parties shall submit information for the previous calendar year (based 
on Universal Coordinated Time), which is referred to as the “reported year” (e.g. in the 
2017 standard electronic format submission, the “reported year” will be the 2016 calendar 
year);  
14. Also decides  that a Party included in Annex I without a quantified emission 
limitation or reduction commitment inscribed in the third column of Annex B shall 
continue to provide relevant information on its national registry, or changes thereto, 
including information on the units in its registry, by submitting the standard electronic 
format tables in conjunction with its annual inventory submission for the second 
commitment period, in accordance with decisions 13/CMP.1 and 15/CMP.1 and annex I to 
this decision, if its registry is connected to the international transaction log at any time 
during the relevant calendar year;  
15. Further decides  that, for the second commit ment period, each Party included in 
Annex I with a quantified emission limitation or reduction commitment inscribed in the 
third column of Annex B shall submit its first standard electronic format for reporting 
Kyoto Protocol units for the second commitmen t period in conjunction with its first annual 
inventory submission for that commitment period, in accordance with paragraph 5 of 
decision 2/CMP.8;  
16. Decides that the contribution of assigned amount units as a share of proceeds shall 
be executed in the most t ransparent manner, taking into account environmental integrity at 
the international level;  
17. Also decides  that, where a Party included in Annex I undertakes a corrective 
transaction to reflect a correction to the compilation and accounting database applied b y the 
Compliance Committee, pursuant to chapter V, paragraph 5(b), of the annex to decision 
27/CMP.1, the information in the compilation and accounting database shall be 
appropriately amended to avoid double counting, following the review of the corrective  
transaction in accordance with Article 8 of the Kyoto Protocol and the resolution of any 
questions of implementation;  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
8  18. Further decides to extend the code of practice for the treatment of confidential 
information for the review of inventories under Article 8 of the Kyoto Protocol to the 
review of information on assigned amounts under Article 8 of the Kyoto Protocol;  
19. Requests  the administrator of the international transaction log to develop an 
application to facilitate the submission of the standard electroni c format referred to in 
paragraph 12 above and to report on progress made in the development and testing of that 
application in its next annual report;  
20. Adopts  the revisions to the “Guidelines for the preparation of the information 
required under Article 7 of the Kyoto Protocol”2 for the second commitment period 
contained in annex III.  
                                                           
 2 Decision 15/CMP.1, annex.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 9 Annex I  
Modalities for the accounting of  assigned amounts under Article 7, 
paragraph 4, of the Kyoto Protocol  
General provisions  
1. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 2 of decision 
13/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following paragraph:  
 2. For the purpose of the second commi tment period, after completion of the 
initial review under Article 8 of the report to facilitate the calculation of the assigned 
amount pursuant to Article 3, paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 8 bis, in accordance with 
paragraphs 2 –4 of decision 2/CMP.8, and in reso lution of any question of 
implementation relating to adjustments under Article 5, paragraph 2, or the assigned 
amount pursuant to Article 3, paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 8 bis, the assigned amount 
pursuant to Article 3, paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 8 bis, of each Pa rty shall be recorded 
in the database for the compilation and accounting of emissions and assigned 
amounts referred to in paragraph 50 of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1, and shall 
remain fixed for the second commitment period.  
I. Modalities  
B. Calculation of the  assigned amounts pursuant to Article 3, paragraphs 
7 bis, 8 and 8 bis1 
2. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 5 of the annex to 
decision 13/CMP.1 shall be replaced with the following paragraph:  
 5. The assigned amount pursuant to Artic le 3, paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 8 bis, for 
the second commitment period, from 2013 to 2020, for each Party included in 
Annex I with a commitment inscribed in the third column of Annex B, shall be equal 
to the percentage inscribed for it in the third column o f Annex B of its aggregate 
anthropogenic carbon dioxide equivalent emissions of greenhouse gases from the 
sources listed in Annex A to the Kyoto Protocol in the base year or period multiplied 
by eight, taking into account the following:  
(a) The base year s hall be 1990 except for those Parties undergoing the process 
of transition to a market economy that have selected a historical base year or period 
other than 1990, in accordance with Article 3, paragraph 5, for those Parties that 
have selected 1995 as the base year for total emissions of hydrofluorocarbons, 
perfluorocarbons and sulphur hexafluoride, in accordance with Article 3, paragraph 
8, and 1995 or 2000 as the base year for total emissions of nitrogen trifluoride, in 
accordance with Article 3, paragrap h 8 bis;  
(b) Those Parties for which land -use change and forestry (all emissions by 
sources and removals by sinks under category 4 of the Guidelines for the 
preparation of national communications by Parties included in Annex I to the 
Convention, Part I: UN FCCC reporting guidelines on annual greenhouse gas 
                                                           
 1 Unless otherwise specified in this annex , hereinafter the section headings in the annex  follow the 
numbering of the corresponding section headings in the annex to decision 13/CMP.1.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
10  inventories  (hereinafter referred to as the UNFCCC Annex I inventory reporting 
guidelines)2 as contained in the common reporting format tables) constituted a net 
source of greenhouse gas emissions in the b ase year or period shall include in their 
emissions during that year or period the aggregate anthropogenic carbon dioxide 
equivalent emissions by sources minus removals by sinks in that year or period from 
land-use change (all emissions by sources minus re movals by sinks reported in 
relation to the conversion of forests (deforestation));  
(c) Those Parties that have reached an agreement in accordance with Article 4 to 
fulfil their commitments under Article 3 jointly shall use the respective emission 
level al located to each of the Parties in that agreement instead of the percentage 
inscribed for it in the third column of Annex B.  
3. Paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1 shall not apply for the 
purpose of the second commitment period.  
4. The followi ng paragraphs and chapter heading shall be inserted after paragraph 8 of 
the annex to decision 13/CMP.1:  
 8 bis.  The report to facilitate the calculation of the assigned amount pursuant to 
Article 3, paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 8 bis, referred to in paragraph 2 of decision 
2/CMP.8 , shall contain the following additional information , in accordance with the 
following subparagraph,  inserted after subparagraph  (m) in annex I to decision 
2/CMP.8:   
(n)  The calculation of the difference between the assigned amount for the 
second commitment period and average annual emissions for the first three 
years of the preceding commitment period multiplied by eight, pursuant to 
Article 3, paragraph 7 ter, and in acco rdance with paragraphs 8 ter and 8 
quater below.  
B bis.  Cancellation pursuant to Article 3, paragraph 7 ter  
 8 ter. The reference to the assigned amount for the second commitment period 
referred to in Article 3, paragraph 7 ter , shall be understood as referring to the 
assigned amount for the second commitment period calculated pursuant to Article 3, 
paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 8 bis.  
 8 quater. For the purpose of Article 3, paragraph 7 ter, the units cancelled shall be 
assigned amou nt units (AAUs) issued by the Party for the second commitment 
period.  
 8 quinquies. Where a Party applies the cancellation pursuant to Article 3, paragraph 
7 ter, the commitment period reserve for the second commitment period under 
paragraph 6 of the annex  to decision 11/CMP.1 for that Party shall not drop below 
90 per cent of eight times its average annual emissions for the first three years of the 
first commitment period, or 100 per cent of eight times its most recently reviewed 
inventory, whichever is lo wer. 
 8 sexies. The reference to assigned amount in decision 1/CMP.8, paragraph 25, for a 
Party that is undergoing the process of transition to a market economy and is not 
fulfilling its commitments under Article 3 jointly, in accordance with Article 4 of the 
Kyoto Protocol, shall be understood as referring to the assigned amount for the 
second commitment period, calculated pursuant to Article 3, paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 
                                                           
 2 Decision 24/CP.19, annex I.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 11 8 bis, adjusted by the number of assigned amount units cancelled in accordance with 
paragraph 23 ter of decision 13/CMP.1 as revised by this decision.  
 8 septies. Any Party that is undergoing the process of transition to a market 
economy and is not fulfilling its commitments under Article 3 jointly, in accordance 
with Article 4 of the Kyoto Protocol, and for which the reference to assigned amount 
in decision 1/CMP.8 is understood as referring to the assigned amount for the 
second commitment period, calculated pursuant to Article 3, paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 
8 bis, and adjusted by the number of assigned amount units cancelled in accordance 
with paragraph 23 ter of decision 13/CMP.1, as revised by this decision in 
accordance with paragraph 8 sexies above, shall not transfer units from its previous 
period surplus reserve account to other previous p eriod surplus reserve accounts and 
may use assigned amount units from its previous period surplus reserve account for 
retirement in accordance with paragraph 25 of decision 1/CMP.8 and paragraph 8 
sexies above.  
C. Recording of the assigned amounts pursuant to  Article 3, paragraphs 7 
bis, 8 and 8 bis  
5. For the purpose of the second commitment period, the following paragraphs shall be 
inserted after paragraphs 9 and 10 of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1, respectively:  
 9 bis.  After initial review under Article 8 an d resolution of any questions of 
implementation relating to adjustments or the calculation of its assigned amount 
pursuant to Article 3, paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 8 bis, any positive difference between 
the assigned amount for the second commitment period for  a Party included in 
Annex I and its average annual emissions for the first three years of the preceding 
commitment period multiplied by eight of each Party shall be recorded in the 
database for the compilation and accounting of emissions and assigned amou nts 
referred to in paragraph 50 of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1.  
 10 bis.  Once recorded in the compilation and accounting database referred to in 
paragraph 50 of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1, the quantity to be cancelled under 
Article 3, paragraph 7 te r, for each Party shall remain fixed for the second 
commitment period.  
D. Additions to, and subtractions from, the assigned amounts pursuant to 
Article  3, paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 8 bis, for the accounting of the 
compliance assessment  
6. For the purpose of the se cond commitment period, the following shall be inserted 
after paragraph 11(d) of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1:  
 11(d) bis.  Any acquisition by a Party of AAUs from previous period surplus 
reserve accounts of other Parties shall be in accordance with deci sion 1/CMP.8.  
7. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 11(f) of the annex to 
decision 13/CMP.1 shall be replaced with the following:  
 11(f)  Carry -over by the Party of emission reduction units (ERUs), certified 
emission reductions (CERs) and/or AAUs from the previous commitment period, in 
accordance with paragraphs 23 –26 of decision 1/CMP.8.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
12  8. For the purpose of the second commitment period, the following subparagraphs shall 
be added after the appropriate subparagraphs of paragraph 12 of the  annex to decision 
13/CMP.1:  
 12(e) bis.  For the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol, cancellation 
by the Party of AAUs under Article 3, paragraphs 1 ter and 1 quater;  
 12(e) ter.  For the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol, cancellat ion 
by the Party of AAUs under Article 3, paragraph 7 ter;  
 12(g)  Transfers by the Party of AAUs from its previous period surplus reserve 
account to the previous period surplus reserve accounts of other Parties in 
accordance with paragraph 26 of decision 1 /CMP.8;  
 12(h)  Transfer by the Party of AAUs from the previous period surplus reserve 
account to the retirement account in accordance with paragraphs 23 –26 of decision 
1/CMP.8;  
 12(i)  Voluntary cancellation by the Party of any units under paragraph 21(e) o f the 
annex to decision 13/CMP.1;  
 12(j)  Cancellation of units that remain after the expiration of the additional period 
for fulfilment commitments and carry -overs under paragraph 36 of the annex to 
decision 13/CMP.1;  
 12(k)  Cancellation of temporary certified emission reductions  (tCERs) by the Party 
after their expiry under paragraph 53 of the annex to decision 5/CMP.1;  
 12(l)  Cancellation of long -term certified emission reductions  (lCERs) by the Party 
after their expiry under paragraph 53 of the annex to decision 5/CMP.1;  
 12(m)  Cancellation by the Party of lCERs  held in holding accounts where there has 
been a reversal of removals by sinks for the project activity concerned under 
paragraph 49 of the annex to decision 5/CMP.1 and paragraph 3 of appendix D to 
decision 5/CMP.1;  
 12(n)  Cancellation by the Party of lCE Rs by the Party held in holding accounts 
where a certification report for the project activity concerned has not been provided 
under paragraph 50 of the annex to decision 5/CMP.1 and paragraph 3 of appendix 
D to decision 5/CMP.1;  
 12(o)  Cancellation of AAU s, CERs, ERUs, removal units (RMUs) and/or tCERs 
for the purpose of replacing tCERs prior to expiry under paragraphs 41 –43 of the 
annex to decision 5/CMP.1;  
 12(p)  Cancellation of AAUs, CERs, ERUs and/or RMUs for the purpose of 
replacing lCERs prior to exp iry under paragraph 47(a) of the annex to decision 
5/CMP.1;  
 12(q)  Cancellation of AAUs, CERs, ERUs, RMUs and/or lCERs from the same 
project activity for the purpose of replacing lCERs where there has been a reversal 
of removals by sinks under paragraph 47 (b) of the annex to decision 5/CMP.1;  
 12(r)  Cancellation of AAUs, CERs, ERUs, RMUs and/or lCERs from the same 
project activity for the purpose of replacing lCERs where a certification report has 
not been provided under paragraph 47(c) of the annex to deci sion 5/CMP.1.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 13 E. Basis for the compliance assessment  
9. For the purpose of the second commitment period, the assessment referred to in 
paragraph 14 of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1 shall be carried out taking into account 
also paragraph 25 of decision 1/CMP.8.  
F. Carry -over  
10. For the purpose of the second commitment period, the following chapter heading 
and paragraphs shall be inserted after paragraph 16 of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1:  
 G. Share of proceeds  
 16 bis.  The share of proceeds pursuant to paragraphs 20 and 21 of decision 1/CMP.8 
shall be calculated in accordance with the following:  
 (a) The quantity of units levied as a share of the proceeds on the issuance of 
CERs from project activities, on the first international transfers of AAUs and on the 
issuance  of ERUs, shall be calculated as 2 per cent of the amount of units issued or 
transferred in each transaction, rounded up to the next higher integer value;  
 (b) The quantity of units levied as a share of the proceeds on the first 
international transfer of AAUs shall be included in the quantity of AAUs 
transferred. The quantity of units levied as a share of the proceeds on the issuance of 
ERUs for Article 6 projects shall be included in the quantities of ERUs issued for 
the project concerned;  
 (c) The transf ers to the Adaptation Fund account pursuant to paragraphs 20 –22 
of decision 1/CMP.8 shall not be subject to the share of proceeds;  
 (d) The first international transfers of units between previous period surplus 
reserve accounts shall not be subject to the share of proceeds;  
 (e) The term “first international transfer” refers to the first external transfer of 
each individual AAU from the originating registry to the registry of another Party, 
tracked by its serial number.  
II. Registry requirements  
A. National regist ries 
11. For the purpose of the second commitment  period, the following shall be inserted 
after paragraph 21(d) of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1:  
 21(d) bis.  One cancellation account for each commitment period for the purpose 
of cancelling AAUs under Article 3, paragraphs 1 ter and 1 quater;  
 21(d) ter.  One cancellation account for the second commitment period for the 
purpose of cancelling AAUs pursuant to Article 3, paragraph 7 ter;  
 21(d) quater.  One previous period surplus reserve account for holdings of AA Us, in 
accordance with paragraphs 23 –26 of decision 1/CMP.8;  
12. For the purpose of the second commitment period, the following shall be inserted 
after paragraph 21(f) of the annex to decision  13/CMP.1:  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
14   21(g)  One cancellation account for voluntary cancellation by the Party of any units 
under paragraph 21(e) of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1;  
 21(h)  One cancellation account for the purpose of cancelling units that remain after 
the expiration of the additional period for fulfilment commitments and car ry-overs 
under paragraph 36 of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1;  
 21(i)  One cancellation account for the purpose of cancellation of tCERs by the 
Party after their expiry under paragraph 53 of the annex to decision 5/CMP.1;  
 21(j)  One cancellation account for  the purpose of cancellation of lCERs by the 
Party after their expiry under paragraph 53 of the annex to decision 5/CMP.1;  
 21(k)  One cancellation account for the purpose of cancellation of lCERs by the 
Party held in holding accounts where there has been a reversal of removals by sinks 
for the project activity concerned under paragraph 49 of the annex to decision 
5/CMP.1 and paragraph 3 of appendix D to decision 5/CMP.1;  
 21(l)  One cancellation account for the purpose of cancellation of lCERs by the 
Party  held in holding accounts where a certification report for the project activity 
concerned has not been provided under paragraph 50 of the annex to decision 
5/CMP.1 and paragraph 3 of appendix D to decision 5/CMP.1;  
 21(m) One replacement account for the pu rpose of cancelling AAUs, CERs, ERUs, 
RMUs and/or tCERs for the purpose of replacing tCERs prior to expiry under 
paragraph 43 of the annex to decision 5/CMP.1;  
 21(n)  One replacement account for the purpose of cancelling AAUs, CERs, ERUs 
and/or RMUs for th e purpose of replacing lCERs prior to expiry under paragraph 
47(a) of the annex to decision 5/CMP.1;  
 21(o)  One replacement account for the purpose of cancelling AAUs, CERs, ERUs, 
RMUs and/or lCERs from the same project activity for the purpose of replacin g 
lCERs where there has been a reversal of removals by sinks under paragraph 47(b) 
of the annex to decision 5/CMP.1;  
 21(p)  One replacement account for the purpose of cancelling AAUs, CERs, ERUs, 
RMUs and/or lCERs from the same project activity for the pur pose of replacing 
lCERs where a certification report has not been provided under paragraph 47(c) of 
the annex to decision 5/CMP.1.  
B. Issuance of emission reduction units, assigned amount units and 
removal units  
13. Paragraph 23 of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1 shall not apply for the second 
commitment period and the following paragraphs  shall be inserted after paragraph 23 of the 
annex to decision 13/CMP.1:  
 23 bis.  For the purpose of the second commitment period, each Party included in 
Annex I shall issue in it s national registry a quantity of AAUs equivalent to the 
assigned amount of that Party pursuant to Article 3, paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 8 bis, 
calculated and reported in accordance with paragraph 5 bis above, and paragraph 3 
of decision 2/CMP.8.  
 23 ter.  For the purpose of the second commitment period, the transfer of units for 
cancellation in accordance with Article 3, paragraph 7 ter shall occur immediately 
upon issuance of the assigned amount units referred to in the previous paragraph.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 15 C. Transfer, acquisiti on, cancellation, retirement and carry -over  
14. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraphs 30, 34 and 36 of the 
annex to decision 13/CMP.1 shall be replaced  by paragraphs 30, 34 and 36 below and 
paragraphs 33 bis and 33 ter shall be inserted a fter paragraph 33 as follows:  
 30. For the purpose of the second commitment period, ERUs, CERs, AAUs and 
RMUs may be transferred between registries in accordance with decisions 3/CMP.1, 
9/CMP.1, 11/CMP.1 and 1/CMP.8, and may be transferred within registrie s. 
 33 bis.  Each Party included in Annex I may cancel AAUs under Article 3, 
paragraphs 1 ter and 1 quater, so they cannot be used in fulfilment of commitments 
under Article 3, paragraph 1 bis, in accordance with paragraph 12(e) bis above, by 
transferring t hem to the appropriate cancellation account in its national registry. 
Legal entities, where authorized by the Party, may also transfer AAUs into the 
cancellation account.  
 33 ter.  Each Party included in Annex I shall cancel AAUs pursuant to Article 3, 
paragraph 7 ter, in accordance with paragraph 12(e) ter above, by transferring them 
to the appropriate cancellation account in its national registry.  
 34. For the purpose of the second commitment period, prior to the end of the 
additional period for fulfillin g commitments, each Party included in Annex I shall 
retire ERUs, CERs, AAUs and/or RMUs valid for that commitment period for use 
towards meeting its commitments under Article 3, paragraph 1 bis, in accordance 
with paragraph 13 of the annex to decision 13/C MP.1 and paragraph 25 of decision 
1/CMP.8 by transferring ERUs, CERs, AAUs and/or RMUs to the retirement 
account for that commitment period in its national registry.  
 36. For the purpose of the second commitment period, each Party included in 
Annex I may c arry over to the subsequent commitment period, in accordance with 
paragraph 15 of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1 and paragraphs 23 –26 of decision 
1/CMP.8, ERUs, CERs and/or AAUs held in its registry that have not been 
cancelled or retired for a commitment period or that are not held in its previous 
period surplus reserve account. Each ERU, CER and/or AAU carried over in this 
manner shall maintain its original serial number and shall be valid in the subsequent 
commitment period. ERUs, CERs, AAUs and RMUs hel d in the national registry of 
a Party that have not been carried over in this manner or retired for the commitment 
period shall be cancelled in accordance with paragraph 12(f) of the annex to decision 
13/CMP.1, once the additional period for fulfilling com mitments has ended.  
D. Transaction procedures  
15. For the purpose of the second commitment period, the following paragraph shall 
replace paragraph 42 of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1:  
 42. Upon receipt of the record, for the second commitment period the transact ion 
log shall conduct an automated check to verify that there is no discrepancy:  
 (a) All transactions: units previously retired or cancelled; units existing in more 
than one registry; units for which a previously identified discrepancy has not been 
resolved; units improperly carried over or improperly transferred to previous period 
surplus reserve accounts; units improperly issued, including those that infringe the 
limits contained in decision 2/CMP.7; and the authorization of legal entities 
involved  to participate in the transaction;  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
16   (b) In the case of transfers between registries: the eligibility of Parties involved 
in the transaction to participate in joint implementation, the clean development 
mechanism and international emissions trading under A rticles 6, 12 and 17 of the 
Kyoto Protocol; infringement of the commitment period reserve of the transferring 
Party; and infringements of the limits to transfer units between previous period 
surplus reserve accounts of different Parties as set out in parag raph 26 of decision 
1/CMP.8;  
 (c) In the case of acquisitions of tCER s and lCER s from land use , land -use 
change and forestry projects under Article 12: infringement of the limits contained 
in decision 2/CMP.7;  
 (d) In the case of a retirement of CERs: the eligibility of the Party in accordance 
with paragraph 14 of decision 1/CMP.8 to use CERs to contribute to its compliance 
under Article 3, paragraph 1 bis.  
E. Publicly accessible information  
16. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 45(e) of t he annex to 
decision 13/CMP.1 shall not apply.  
17. For the purpose of the second commitment period, the following shall be added after 
the respective subparagraphs of paragraph 47 of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1:  
 47(a) bis.  The total quantity of AAUs in the  previous period surplus reserve 
account at the beginning of the year;  
 47(h) bis.  The total quantity of AAUs cancelled under Article 3, paragraphs 1 ter 
and 1 quater;  
 47(h) ter.  The total quantity of AAUs cancelled under Article 3, paragraph 7 ter.  
III. Comp ilation and accounting of emission inventories and 
assigned amounts  
Compilation and accounting database  
18. For the purpose of the second commitment period, the following shall be added after 
paragraph 52 (b) of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1:  
 52(c)  For the pu rpose of the second commitment period, any positive difference 
between the assigned amount for the second commitment period for a Party included 
in Annex I and average annual emissions for the first three years of the preceding 
commitment period multiplied  by eight, pursuant to Article 3, paragraph 7 ter;  
 52(d)  For the purpose of the second commitment period, the forest management 
reference level inscribed in the appendix to the annex to decision 2/CMP.7;  
 52(e)  For the purpose of the second commitment pe riod, any cancellations of 
Kyoto Protocol units pursuant to paragraph 5(a) of section XV of the annex to 
decision 27/CMP.1 arising from non -compliance in the first commitment period.  
19. For the purpose of the second commitment period, the following shall be a dded after 
paragraph 55(e) of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1:  
 55(f)  Technical corrections in accordance with paragraph 15 of decision 2/CMP.7;  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 17  55(g)  For those activities for which the Party has elected to account annually, the 
net anthropogenic emission s and removals of greenhouse gases in accordance with 
decision 2/CMP.7 and the related accounting quantity for the calendar year;  
 55(h)  For those activities for which the Party has elected to account for the entire 
commitment period, the net anthropogenic  emissions and removals of greenhouse 
gases in accordance with decision 2/CMP.7 and the related accounting quantity at 
the end of the commitment period;  
 55(i)  In the second commitment period, any changes to the total allowable issuance 
of RMUs resulting f rom forest management activities under Article 3, paragraph 4, 
due to technical corrections to forest management reference levels reported by a 
Party in accordance with paragraphs 14 and 15 of decision 2/CMP.7 and reviewed 
under Article 8 in accordance wit h decision 2/CMP.7.  
20. For the purpose of the second commitment period, the following shall be added after 
paragraph 58(h) of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1:  
 58(h) bis.  For the purpose of the second commitment period, total cancellations 
of AAUs cancelled un der Article 3, paragraphs 1 ter and 1 quater;  
 58(h) ter.  For the purpose of the second commitment period, total cancellations 
of AAUs cancelled under Article 3, paragraph 7 ter.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
18  Annex II  
Standard electronic format for reporting information on  
Kyoto Protocol units1 
I. General reporting instructions  
1. Each Party included in Annex I with a quantified emissions limitation or reduc tion 
commitment inscribed in the third column of Annex B shall annually report tables in a 
standard electronic format (SEF) to the secretariat electronically. Any related information 
of a non -quantitative nature shall be submitted  separately. Unless otherw ise indicated, 
Parties shall submit information for the previous calendar year (based on Universal 
Coordinated Time). This is referred to as the “reported year” (e.g. in the 2017 SEF 
submission, the “reported year” will be the 2016 calendar year).  
2. For the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol, each Party included in 
Annex I shall submit its first SEF for reporting  Kyoto Protocol units for the second 
commitment period in conjunction with its first annual inventory submission for that 
commitment peri od.2 
3. Each Party included in Annex I shall submit  the SEF annually until the expiration of 
the additional period for the fulfilment of commitments for the relevant commitment 
period.  
4. If a Party included in Annex I is undertaking transactions for two or more  
commitment periods simultaneously, then the Party shall provide a separate, complete 
report for each commitment period. Each report shall contain information on only those 
Kyoto  Protocol units valid for that commitment period.3 
5. All values recorded in the SEF tables shall be positive, whole units. Negative values 
shall not be entered.  
6. Not all unit types are relevant to each account, transaction or event type. Where a 
cell is shaded in a table, the information or transaction does not apply to that particular  unit 
type.  
7. All tables shall be filled in completely. If no units of a particular type occurred for a 
transaction in the previous year, the Party shall enter “NO” in the cell for “not occurring”.  
8. In the interest of readability, descriptive titles are used in the SEF to refer to specific 
account and transaction types. Explanations of those descriptive titles and references to the 
pertinent provisions under the Kyoto  Protocol are provided in the instructions on individual 
tables contained in chapter II below.  
                                                           
 1 Assigned amount unit s (AAUs), emission reduction units (ERUs), removal units (RMUs),  and 
certified emission reductions (CERs), including temporary certified emission reductions (tCERs) and  
long-term certified emission reductions (lCERs).  
 2 In accordance with decision 2/CMP.8 , paragraph 5.  
 3 AAUs, ERUs, RMUs  and CERs, including tCERs and lCERs.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 19 II. Instructions on individual tables  
A. Table 1. Total quantities of Kyoto  Protocol units by account type at 
beginning of reported year  
9. In table 1, each Party included in Annex I shall provide information on the total 
quantity of Kyoto  Protocol units contained in its national registry, by account type and by 
unit type, as at 1 January of the reported year.  
10. Each Party included in Annex I shall report on the total quantities of Kyoto  Protocol 
units, by unit type, held in each of the following account types:  
(a) “Party  holding accounts” (paragraph 21(a) of the annex to decision 
13/CMP.1);  
(b) “Entity holding accounts” (paragraph 21(b) of the annex to decision 
13/CMP.1);  
(c) “Retirement account” (paragraph 21(f) of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1);  
(d) “Previous period surplus reserv e account” (paragraph 23 of decision 
1/CMP.8);  
(e) “Article 3.3/3.4 net source cancellation accounts”, for the cancellation of 
Kyoto Protocol units as a result of emissions from activities under Article 3, paragraphs 3 
and 4, of the Kyoto  Protocol (paragraph 2 1(c) of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1 and 
decision 2/CMP.7);  
(f) “Non -compliance cancellation account”, for the cancellation of Kyoto 
Protocol units following a determination by the Compliance Committee that the Party 
included in Annex I is not in compliance with its commitment under Article 3, paragraph 1 
(paragraphs 12(e) and 21(d) of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1);  
(g) “Voluntary cancellation account”, for voluntary cancellations (paragraph 
21(e) of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1);  
(h) “Cancellation account for remaining units after carry -over”, to cancel units 
that remain after the expiration of the additional period for fulfilling commitments  and the 
carry -overs, if any, have been undertaken (paragraph 36 of the annex to decision 
13/CMP.1);  
(i) “Article 3. 1 ter and q uater ambition increase cancellation account”, for 
cancellations pursuant to paragraph 8 of decision 1/CMP.8;  
(j) “Article 3.7 ter cancellation account”, for cancellations pursuant to Article 3, 
paragraph 7 ter;  
(k) “tCER cancellation account for expiry”, to cance l temporary certified 
emission reduction (tCERs) after their expiry (paragraph 53 of the annex to decision 
5/CMP.1);  
(l) “lCER cancellation account for expiry”, to cancel long -term certified 
emission reduction (lCERs) after their expiry (paragraph 53 of the an nex to decision 
5/CMP.1);  
(m) “lCER cancellation account for reversal of removals ”, to cancel lCERs held 
in holding accounts where there has been a reversal of removals by sinks for the project 
activity concerned (paragraph 49 of the annex to decision 5/CMP.1 and paragraph 3 of 
appendix D to decision 5/CMP.1);  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
20  (n) “lCER cancellation account for non -submission of certification report”, to 
cancel lCERs held in holding accounts where a certification report for the project activity 
concerned has not been provided (para graph 50 of the annex to decision 5/CMP.1 and 
paragraph 3 of appendix D to decision 5/CMP.1).  
11. In addition, each Party included in Annex I shall report on the total quantities of 
Kyoto  Protocol units, by unit type, held in each of the replacement account ty pes specified 
in the following paragraphs of the annex to decision 5/CMP.1:  
(a) “tCER replacement account for expiry”, to cancel assigned amount units  
(AAUs), certified emission reduction  (CERs), emission reduction units  (ERUs), removal 
units (RMUs) and/or tCE Rs for the purpose of replacing tCERs prior to expiry (para . 43); 
(b) “lCER replacement account for expiry”, to cancel AAUs, CERs, ERUs 
and/or RMUs for the purpose of replacing lCERs prior to expiry (para . 47(a));  
(c) “lCER replacement account for reversal of remo vals”, to cancel AAUs, 
CERs, ERUs, RMUs and/or lCERs from the same project activity for the purpose of 
replacing lCERs where there has been a reversal of removals by sinks (para . 47(b));  
(d) “lCER replacement account for non -submission of certification report” , to 
cancel AAUs, CERs, ERUs, RMUs and/or lCERs from the same project activity for the 
purpose of replacing lCERs when a certification report has not been provided (para . 47(c)).  
B. Table 2(a). Annual internal transactions  
12. In table 2(a), Annex I Parties shall  report information on the total quantity of 
Kyoto  Protocol units involved in internal transactions (those that did not involve another 
registry) that occurred between 1 January and 31 December of the reported year, as 
described below, including any correc tive transactions.  
13. Under the “Article 6 issuance and conversion” section, Annex I Parties shall report 
information relating to joint implementation projects under the Kyoto  Protocol in 
accordance with the following paragraphs of the annex to decision 9/CMP .1: 
(a) For “Party -verified projects” (also referred to as “track one” projects) Annex 
I Parties shall report information pertaining to projects for which emission reductions or the 
enhancement of removals have been verified by the host Party in accordance wit h 
paragraph 23 of the annex to decision 9/CMP.1:  
(i) Each Party included in Annex I shall report under “Additions” the total 
quantity of ERUs issued pursuant to paragraph 29 of the annex to decision 
13/CMP.1;  
(ii) The Party shall report under “Subtractions” the cor responding quantity of 
AAUs converted, or, in the case of land use, land -use change and forestry 
(LULUCF) projects, the corresponding quantity of RMUs converted, pursuant to 
paragraph  29 of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1;  
(b) For “Independently verified projec ts” (also referred to as “track two” 
projects),  Annex I Parties shall report information pertaining to projects for which emission 
reductions or the enhancement of removals have been verified through the procedure under 
the Article  6 Supervisory Committee in accordance with paragraphs 30 –45 of the annex to 
decision 9/CMP.1:  
(i) Each Party included in Annex I shall report under “Additions” the total 
quantity of ERUs issued pursuant to paragraph 29 of the annex to decision 
13/CMP.1;  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 21 (ii) The Party shall report under “Subtractions” the corresponding quantity of 
AAUs converted, or, in the case of LULUCF projects, the corresponding quantity of 
RMUs converted, pursuant to paragraph 29 of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1.  
14. Under the section “Article 3.3 and 3.4 issuance or ca ncellation”, each Party included 
in Annex I shall report the quantity of RMUs issued or the units cancelled for its LULUCF 
activities under Article 3, paragraphs 3 and 4 , of the Kyoto Protocol, by individual activity, 
in accordance with the annex to decisi on 16/CMP.1 and decision 2/CMP.7, and with its 
election of activities pursuant to paragraph 8(c) and (d) of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1 
and paragraphs 7 and 8 of the annex to decision 2/CMP.7:  
(a) For any activity resulting in a net removal, each Party incl uded in Annex I 
shall report under “Additions” the total quantity of RMUs issued pursuant to paragraph 25 
of the annex to decision 13/CMP 1 and decision 2/CMP.7;  
(b) For any activity resulting in net emissions, each Party shall report under 
“Subtractions” the total quantities of AAUs, ERUs, RMUs and/or CERs cancelled pursuant 
to paragraph  32 of the annex to decision 13/CMP. 1 and decision 2/CMP.7.  
15. Under the section “Article 12 afforestation and reforestation”, each Party included in 
Annex I shall report informat ion relating to afforestation and reforestation project activities 
under the clean development mechanism (CDM), as specified in the relevant paragraphs of 
the annex to decision 5/CMP.1:4 
(a) “Replacement of expired tCERs”, the total quantities of AAUs, CERs, E RUs, 
RMUs and/or tCERs that were transferred to the tCER replacement account (para . 44); 
(b) “Replacement of expired lCERs”, the total quantities of AAUs, CERs, ERUs 
and/or RMUs that were transferred to the lCER replacement account for replacement of 
expiring lCERs (para . 47(a));  
(c) “Replacement of lCERs for reversal of  removals”, the total quantities of 
AAUs, CERs, ERUs, RMUs and/or lCERs that were transferred to the lCER replacement 
account for reversal of removals (para . 47(b));  
(d) “Cancellation of lCERs for rever sal of  removals”, the total quantities of 
lCERs that were cancelled following a reversal of removals (para . 49 and appendix D, para . 
3); 
(e) “Replacement of lCERs for non -submission of certification report”, the total 
quantities of AAUs, CERs, ERUs, RMUs and/o r lCERs that were transferred to the lCER 
replacement account for non -submission of certification report (para . 50 and appendix D, 
para. 3); 
(f) “Cancellation of lCERs for non -submission of certification report”, the total 
quantities of lCERs that were cancell ed following a non -submission of certification report 
(para . 50 and appendix D, para . 3). 
16. Under “Other cancellation”, each Party included in Annex I shall report the total 
quantities of Kyoto  Protocol units, by type, that were cancelled for the following reasons:5 
(a) “Voluntary cancellation”, for voluntary cancellations (para . 21(e) of the 
annex to decision 13/CMP.1);  
 
                                                           
 4 Additional information relating to afforestation and reforestation project activities is reported in 
table  3. 
 5 Cancellations following determination of non -compliance are reported  in table 5(a).  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
22  (b) “Article 3.1 ter and quater ambition increase cancellation”, for cancellations 
pursuant to paragraph 8 of decision 1/CMP.8 .6 
17. Each Party includ ed in Annex I shall sum the quantities of Kyoto  Protocol units in 
each column and report these under “Sub -total”.  
18. In the box “Retirement”, each Party included in Annex I shall report the following 
information:  
(a) Under the line “Retirement”, the total quanti ties of Kyoto  Protocol units, by 
type, that were transferred from its national holding account to its retirement account. 
These values shall not be included in the main body of table 2(a);  
(b) Under the line “Retirement from PPSR”, the total quantities of AAUs  that 
were transferred from its previous period surplus reserve (PPSR) account to its retirement 
account. These values shall not be included in the main body of table 2(a);  
(c) Under the line “Total”, the total quantities of units that were transferred to its 
retirement account.  
C. Table 2(b). Total annual external transactions  
19. In table 2(b), Annex I Parties shall report information on the total quantities of 
Kyoto  Protocol units involved in external transactions (those that involved another registry) 
that occurre d between 1  January and 31 December of the reported year, including any 
corrective transactions.  
20. Under “Total transfers and acquisitions”, each Party included in Annex I shall 
include a separate row for each registry (Party or CDM registry) to which it transferred, 
from which it acquired or from which it was forwarded Kyoto  Protocol units during the 
previous year:  
(a) Each Party shall report the quantities of all Kyoto  Protocol units acquired 
from a registry, including any units transferred from the Adaptati on Fund account or 
forwarded from the CDM registry, by type, under “Additions”;  
(b) Each Party shall report the total quantities of Kyoto  Protocol units transferred 
to that registry, including transfers to the share of proceeds pursuant to paragraph 21 of 
decision 1/CMP.8, cancellations for excess issuance of a CDM project activity7 and 
cancellations of units following a reversal of storage8 or non -submission of certification 
report9 for a carbon dioxide capture and storage (CCS) project activity, under 
“Subtractions” on the same line . 
21. Each Party included in Annex I shall sum the quantities of Kyoto  Protocol units in 
each column and report these under “Sub -total”.  
                                                           
 6 Cancellations to increase ambition in accordance with paragraph 8 of decision 1/CMP.8 are also 
reported in table 5(a).  
 7 Paragraph 52 of the annex to decision 5/CMP.1.  
 8 Paragraph 24(b) of the annex to decision 10/CMP.7.  
 9 Paragraph 27 of the annex to decision 10/CMP.7.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 23 D. Table 2(c). Annual transactions between previous period surplus 
reserve  accounts  
22. Under “Tran sfers and acquisitions between PPSR accounts”, each Party included in 
Annex I shall include a separate row for each registry to which it transferred AAUs from its 
PPSR account or from which it acquired AAUs located in a PPSR account during the 
previous yea r: 
(a) The quantity of AAUs acquired shall be reported under “Additions”. This 
quantity shall also be reported under the “Total transfers and acquisitions” section of table 
2(b);  
(b) The quantity of AAUs transferred shall be reported under “Subtractions”. 
This qua ntity shall also be reported under the “Total transfers and acquisitions” section of 
table 2(b).  
23. Each Party included in Annex I shall sum the quantities of Kyoto  Protocol units in 
each column and report these under “Sub -total”.  
E. Table 2(d). Share of proceed s transactions under decision 1/CMP.8, 
paragraph  21 - Adaptation Fund  
24. The term “first international transfer” refers to the first external transfer of each 
individual AAU from the originating registry to the registry of another Party, tracked by its 
serial  number . 
25. Each Party included in Annex I shall report the quantity of units transferred and of 
units issued for which a share of the proceeds levy applies  and the related quantity of units 
contributed to the Adaptation Fund in accordance with paragraph 21 o f decision 1/CMP.8 
as follows:  
(a) Under “First international transfers of AAUs”, “Amount transferred or 
converted”, each Party shall report the total quantity of AAUs transferred for the first time 
from its registry to another registry tracked by serial numbe r. Under “First international 
transfers of AAUs”, “Amount contributed as Share of Proceeds (SoP) to the Adaptation 
Fund”, each Party shall report the total quantity of AAUs contributed to the Adaptation 
Fund. These transfers shall also be included in the “ Transfers and acquisitions” section of 
table 2(b);  
(b) Under “Issuance of ERUs from Party -verified projects”, “Amount transferred 
or converted”, each Party shall report the total quantity of ERUs relating to projects where 
emission reductions or enhancements o f removals have been verified by the host Party in 
accordance with paragraph 23 of the annex to decision 9/CMP.1. Under “Issuance of ERUs 
from Party -verified projects”, “Amount contributed as SoP to the Adaptation Fund”, each 
Party shall report the total q uantity of ERUs issued relating to projects where emission 
reductions or enhancements of removals have been verified by the host Party in accordance 
with paragraph 23 of the annex to decision 9/CMP.1 and contributed to the Adaptation 
Fund. These transfers shall also be included under the ”Transfers and acquisitions” section 
of table 2(b);  
(c) Under “Issuance of independently verified ERUs”, “Amount transferred or 
converted”, each Party shall report the total quantity of ERUs that had been independently 
verified by the Article 6 Supervisory Committee. Under “Issuance of independently 
verified ERUs”, “A mount contributed as SoP to the Adaptation Fund”, each Party shall 
report the total quantity of ERUs issued that were independently verified by the Article 6 FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
24  Supervisory Committee and contributed to the Adaptation Fund. These transfers shall also 
be includ ed under the “Transfers and acquisitions” section of table 2(b).  
F. Table 2(e). Total annual transactions  
26. Each Party included in Annex I shall add the subtotals of tables 2(a) and 2(b) and 
report the corresponding quantities under “Total” in table 2(e).  
G. Table  3. Annual expiry, cancellation and replacement  
27. In table 3, Annex I Parties shall report information on the expiry, cancellation and 
replacement of tCERs, lCERs and CERs from CCS project activities in accordance with the 
modalities and procedures for affor estation and reforestation project activities under the 
CDM (decision 5/CMP.1) and the modalities and procedures for CCS in geological 
formations as CDM project activities (decision 10/CMP.7). Annex I Parties shall include all 
transactions that occurred be tween 1  January and 31 December of the reported year, 
including any corrective transactions.  
28. Each Party included in Annex I shall report the following information under the 
section “Temporary CERs”:  
(a) “Expired in retirement and replacement accounts”: the qua ntity of tCERs that 
expired in the reported year in the retirement account and the tCER replacement accounts 
for the previous commitment period and the quantity of units that were used to replace 
them. These tCERs will have been valid for the previous comm itment period and will 
expire in the final year of the commitment period;  
(b) “Expired in holding accounts”: the quantity of tCERs that expired in the 
reported year in all Party and entity holding accounts for the previous commitment period 
and the quantity of  units that were cancelled as a result.  
29. Each Party included in Annex I shall report the following information under the 
section “Long -term CERs”:  
(a) “Expired in retirement and replacement accounts”, the quantity of lCERs  that 
expired in the reported year in the retirement account and the lCER replacement accounts 
for previous commitment period s and the quantity of units that were used to replace them. 
These lCERs will have been valid for the previous commitment period;  
(b) “Expired in holding accounts”, the quantity of lCERs that expired in all Party 
and entity holding accounts and the quantity of units that were cancelled as a result. These 
lCERs will have been valid for the previous commitment period;  
(c) “Subject to reversal of  removals ”, in the event that the Party has received 
notification(s) of a reversal of removals under a project activity from the Executive Board 
of the clean development mechanism (CDM Executive Board), the quantity of lCERs that 
the Party is required to r eplace pursuant to the notification(s) and the quantity of units that 
the Party used for replacement or cancellation as a result of these notifications;  
(d) “Subject to non -submission of certification report”, in the event that the Party 
included in Annex I ha s received notification(s) of non -submission of certification report 
under a project activity from the CDM Executive Board, the quantity of lCERs that the 
Party is required to replace pursuant to the notification(s) and the quantity of units that the 
Party  used for replacement or cancellation as a result of the notification(s).  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 25 30. Each Party included in Annex I shall report the following information under the 
section “Carbon Capture and Storage CERs”:  
(a) “Subject to net reversal of storage”, in the event that the  Party has received 
notification(s) of a net reversal of storage of a CCS project activity from the CDM 
Executive Board, the quantity of units that the Party included in Annex I is required to 
cancel pursuant to that notification and the quantity of units that the Party included in 
Annex I used for cancellation as a result of these notifications. The units used to meet this 
requirement are transferred to the CDM registry and are therefore not reported in table 2(a).  
These units used to meet this requirement  shall also be reported in table 2(b);  
(b) “Subject to non -submission of certification report”, in the event that the Party 
included in Annex I has received notification(s) of non -submission of certification report 
for a CCS project activity from the CDM Execu tive Board, the quantity of units that the 
Party included in Annex I is required to replace pursuant to the notification(s) and the 
quantity of units that the Party included in Annex I used for cancellation as a result of the 
notification(s). The units use d to meet this requirement are transferred to the CDM registry 
and are therefore not reported in table 2(a).  These units used to meet this requirement shall 
also be reported in table 2(b).  
31. Annex I Parties shall sum the quantities of Kyoto  Protocol units in  each column and 
report these under “Total”.  
H. Table 4. Total quantities of Kyoto  Protocol units by account type at end 
of reported year  
32. In table 4, Annex I Parties shall include information on the total quantities of 
Kyoto  Protocol units in each account typ e, by unit type, in the national registry at 31 
December of the reported year.  
33. The structure of table 4 follows the structure of table 1.  
I. Table 5(a). Summary information on additions and subtractions  
34. In table 5(a), Annex I Parties shall report cumulative i nformation for the reported 
year and previously reported years to facilitate the recording of information for the 
commitment period in the compilation and accounting database in accordance with the 
annex to decision 13/CMP.1 and this decision.  
35. Each Party included in Annex I shall report the following information:  
(a) “Assigned amount units issued”, “Additions”, the total quantity of AAUs 
issued on the basis of its assigned amount under Article 3, paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 8 bis;  
(b) “Article 3, paragrap h 7 ter, cancellations”, “Subtractions”, the total quantity 
of AAUs cancelled in accordance with Article 3, paragraph 7 ter;  
(c) “Cancellation following increase in ambition”, the total quantity of AAUs 
cancelled in accordance with paragraph 8 of decision 1/CM P.8; 
(d) “Cancellation of remaining units after carry -over”, the total quantity of units, 
per unit type, cancelled after expiration of the additional period for fulfilling commitments  
and carry -overs, if any, have been undertaken (decision 13/CMP.1, annex, par a. 36); 
(e) “Non -compliance cancellation”, if applicable, the quantities of 
Kyoto  Protocol units, by type, that the Party cancelled pursuant to a determination by the 
Compliance Committee that the Party is not in compliance with its commitment under FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
26  Article 3,  paragraph 1, for the previous commitment period pursuant to paragraph  37 of the 
annex to decision 13/CMP.1;10 
(f) “Carry -over”, under “Additions” and if applicable, the total quantities of 
ERUs and/or CERs that were carried over from the previous commitment pe riod; under 
“Subtractions” the total quantities of ERUs and/or CERs that were carried over to the 
subsequent commitment period;  
(g) “Carry -over to PPSR”, under “Additions” and if applicable, the total 
quantities of AAUs that were carried over from the previous  commitment period to the 
PPSR account; under “Subtractions” the total quantities of AAUs that were carried over to 
the subsequent commitment period from the PPSR account.   
J. Table 5(b). Summary information on annual transactions  
36. In table 5(b), each Party included in Annex I shall provide summary information on 
annual transactions for the reported year and previously reported years for the commitment 
period:  
(a) For the reported year, each Party shall report the total quantities of 
Kyoto  Protocol units, by type , from table 2(e);  
(b) For all years prior to the reported year, the Party shall report the total 
quantities of Kyoto  Protocol units, as reported in table 5(b) in the previous SEF tables;  
(c) Under “Total”, each Party shall report the sum to date of all transactio ns. 
K. Table 5(c). Summary information on annual transactions between 
previous period surplus reserve  accounts  
37. In table 5(c), each Party included in Annex I shall provide summary information on 
annual transactions between PPSR accounts for the reported year and for all previously 
reported years for the commitment period:  
(a) For the reported year, each Party shall report the total quantities of AAUs, 
from table 2(c);  
(b) For all years prior to the reported year, the Party shall report the total 
quantities of AAUs, as  reported in table 5(c) in the previous SEF tables;  
(c) Under “Total”, each Party shall report the sum to date of all transactions.  
L. Table 5(d). Summary information on expiry, cancellation and 
replacement  
38. In table 5(d), Annex I Parties shall provide summary inf ormation relating to the 
replacement and cancellations of tCERs, lCERs and CERs from CCS project activities for 
each reported year for the commitment period.  
39. For the reported year, each Party included in Annex I shall report:  
                                                           
 10 This information will not be available until completion of the compliance assessment for the previous 
commitment period, following the expiration of the additional period for the fulfilment of 
commitments.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 27 (a) Under “Requirement to replace or cancel”, the total quantities of tCERs, 
lCERs or CERs from CCS project activities that expired, were subject to a reversal of 
removals or a reversal of storage or a non -submission of certification report in that year;  
(b) Under “Replacement”, the total quan tities of Kyoto  Protocol units, by type, 
cancelled to replace tCERs or lCERs. These quantities should match those reported under 
“Total” in table 3;  
(c) Under “Cancellation”, the total quantities of Kyoto  Protocol units, by type, 
cancelled to replace tCERs, lC ERs or to respond to a reversal of storage or non -submission 
of certification report for CCS project activities. These quantities should match those 
reported under “Total” in table 3.  
40. For all years prior to the reported year, the Party included in Annex I shall repeat the 
information under “Requirement to replace or cancel” and under “Replacement” and 
“Cancellation” as reported in the previous SEF.  
41. Under “Total”, each Party included in Annex I shall report the sum of each column. 
At the end of the commitmen t period, the total quantities of tCERs, lCERs and CERs from 
CCS project activities should match the total quantities of Kyoto  Protocol units under 
“Replacement” and “Cancellation”.  
M. Table 5(e). Summary information on retirement  
42. In table 5(e), Annex I Parti es shall provide summary information on retirement to 
facilitate the compliance assessment at the end of the additional period for fulfilling 
commitments.  
43. For the reported year, each Party included in Annex I shall report under 
“Retirement”, the total quan tities of Kyoto  Protocol units, by type, retired in that year for 
the purpose of demonstrating its compliance with its commitment under Article 3, 
paragraph 1, of the Kyoto  Protocol. These quantities should match those reported under 
“Retirement”, “Total”,  in table 2(a).  
44. For all years prior to the reported year, the Party included in Annex I shall repeat the 
information as reported in the previous SEF.  
45. Under “Total”, each Party included in Annex I shall report the sum of each column.  
N. Table 6. Memo item: Cor rective transactions undertaken in the 
reported year  
46. In tables 6(a) to 6(c), Annex I Parties shall report any corrective transactions 
undertaken in the reported year relating to previously reported years, including transactions 
to address a correction to t he compilation and accounting database applied by the 
Compliance Committee, pursuant to paragraph 5(b) in chapter V of the annex to decision 
27/CMP.1 . It should be noted that quantities of Kyoto  Protocol units reported here are 
included in the annual trans actions reported in tables 2 and 3 and are reported in tables 6(a) 
to 6(c) as a memo item for the purpose of transparency. Parties shall provide explanations 
for these transactions in accompanying text, as required by paragraph 8 of section E of the 
guidel ines for reporting under Article  7 of the Kyoto  Protocol.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
28  III. Standard electronic format tables  
47. The SEF tables are not included in this document but can be downloaded from the 
UNFCCC website.11 
 
                                                           
 11 <http: //unfccc.int/national_reports/accounting_reporting_and_review_under_the_kyoto_protocol  
/items/7969.php>.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8 /Add.1  
 29 Annex III  
Guidelines for the preparation of the information required under 
Article 7 of the Kyoto Protocol  
1. For the purpose of the second commitment period, para graph 11 of the annex to 
decision 15/CMP.1 shall not apply and Parties  shall report Kyoto Protocol units in 
accordance with the standard electronic format and reporting instructions as contained in 
annex II.  
2. For the purpose of the second commitment period,  paragraph 18 of the annex to 
decision 15/CMP.1 shall be replaced with the following paragraph:  
 18. For the purpose of the second commitment period, each Party included in 
Annex I shall report the calculation of its commitment period reserve in accordance  
with the annex to decision 18/CP.7, decision 11/CMP.1 and paragraph 18 of 
decision  1/CMP.8.  
3. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 19 of the annex to 
decision 15/CMP.1 shall be replaced with the following paragraph:  
 19. For the purpos e of the second commitment period, each Party included in 
Annex I shall provide access, upon the request of expert review teams, to 
information held in the national registry relating to the holding accounts referred to 
in paragraph 21(b) of the annex to de cision 13/CMP.1, and other types of accounts 
and transactions for the previous calendar year, that substantiates the supplementary 
information reported under paragraph 1 above and paragraph 12 of the annex to 
decision 15/CMP.1.  
4. For the purpose of the second commitment period, the following paragraph shall be 
inserted after paragraph 24 of the annex to decision 15/CMP.1:  
 24 bis.  Parties included in Annex I without quantified emission limitation and 
reduction commitments for the second commitment period  shall continue to provide 
information relating to how they are striving, under Article 3, paragraph 14, of the 
Kyoto Protocol, to implement their commitments mentioned in Article 3, paragraph 
1, of the Kyoto Protocol in such a way as to minimize adverse s ocial, environmental 
and economic impacts on developing country Parties, particularly those identified in 
Article 4, paragraphs 8 and 9, of the Convention, in accordance with this decision.  
8th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
30  Decision 4/CMP.11  
  Implications of the implementation of decisions 2/CMP.7 to 
4/CMP.7 and 1/CMP.8 on the previous decisions on 
methodological iss ues related to the Kyoto Protocol , 
including those relating to Articles 5, 7 and 8 of the Kyoto 
Protocol, part II: implications related to review and 
adjustments and other related issues  
 The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Kyoto  Protocol , 
 Recalling  Articles 5, 7 and 8 of the Kyoto Protocol,  
 Also recalling  decisions 2/CMP.6, 2/CMP.7, 3/CMP.7, 4/CMP.7, 1/CMP.8, 
2/CMP.8 and 6/CMP.9,  
 Being aware  of decisions 11/CMP.1, 13/CMP.1, 15/CMP.1, 16/CMP.1, 18/CMP.1, 
19/CMP.1, 20/CMP.1, 21/CMP.1, 22/CMP.1, 23/CMP.1, 24/CMP.1, 25/CMP.1, 27/CMP.1 
and 8/CMP.5,  
1. Decides  that, for the purpose of the second commitment period of the Kyoto 
Protocol and pending the entry into force of the Doha Amendment, contained in annex I to 
decision 1/CMP.8, any references in this decision to Annex A, Annex B, Article 3, 
paragraphs 1 bis,  1 ter, 1 quater, 7 bis, 7 ter, 8, 8 bis, 12 bis and 12 ter, and Article 4, 
paragraphs 2 and 3, unless otherwise specified, shall be understood as referring to those 
Articles and annexes as contained in the Doha Amendment, and that upon the entry into 
force of the Doha Amendment such references shall be read as references to the relevant 
Articles of the Kyoto Protocol as amended;  
2. Also decides  that, for the purpose of the second commitment period, decisions 
20/CMP.1 and 22/CMP.1 shall apply mutatis mutandis,  except where otherwise specified in 
decisions 1/CMP.8 and 2/CMP.8 and in this decision;  
3. Further decides  that, for the purpose of the second commitment period, the 
following changes shall apply to decisions 18/CMP.1, 19/CMP.1, 20/CMP.1 and 
22/CMP.1:  
(a) All re ferences to Article 3, paragraphs 7 and 8, shall be read as references to 
Article 3, paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 8 bis;  
(b) All references to the Revised 1996 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse 
Gas Inventories  (hereinafter referred to as the Revised 1996 IPC C Guidelines) as 
elaborated by the Good Practice Guidance and Uncertainty Management in National 
Greenhouse Gas Inventories  (hereinafter referred to as the IPCC good practice guidance), 
the IPCC Guidelines as elaborated by the IPCC good practice guidance, the IPCC 
Guidelines and any good practice guidance or the IPCC good practice guidance, shall be 
read as references to the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories  
(hereinafter referred to as the 2006 IPCC Guidelines) as implemented thro ugh the 
“Guidelines for the preparation of national communications by Parties included in Annex I 
to the Convention, Part I: UNFCCC reporting guidelines on annual greenhouse gas 
inventories” and the 2013 Revised Supplementary Methods and Good Practice Guid ance 
Arising from the Kyoto Protocol and the 2013 Supplement to the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 31 National Greenhouse Gas Inventories: Wetlands , as implemented in accordance with 
decisions 24/CP.19 and 6/CMP.9, except references in paragraph 1 of decision 20/CM P.1; 
(c) All references to chapter 7 of the IPCC good practice guidance shall be read 
as references to chapter 4 of volume 1 of the 2006 IPCC Guidelines;  
(d) All references to “source categories” shall be read as references to 
“categories”;  
(e) All references to “init ial review” shall be read as references to “review of the 
report to facilitate the calculation of the assigned amount”; except that in paragraph 125 of 
the annex to decision 22/CMP.1;  
(f) All references to “industrial processes, solvent and other product use” shall 
be read as references to “industrial processes and product use”;  
(g) All references to decision 13/CMP.1 shall be read as references to decision 
13/CMP.1 in conjunction with decision 3/CMP.11, except those in paragraphs 2 and 5 of 
decision 22/CMP.1 and p aragraphs 85(a) and (c), 86(a) and (c), 87(a) , 89(a) and 92 of the 
annex to decision 22/CMP.1;  
(h) All references to paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 of the annex to decision 13/CMP.1 
shall be read as references to paragraph 2 of and annex I to decision 2/CMP.8, except t hose 
in paragraphs 2 and 5 of decision 22/CMP.1;  
(i) All references to activities under Article 3, paragraph 3, and elected activities 
under Article 3, paragraph 4, shall be read as references to activities under Article 3, 
paragraph 3, forest management under  Article 3, paragraph 4, and any elected activities 
under Article 3, paragraph 4;  
(j) All references to decision 16/CMP.1 shall be read as references to decision 
2/CMP.7 and decision 6/CMP.9;  
(k) Reference to “section I of the guidelines for the preparation of the  
information required under Article  7” in paragraphs 50(a) and 69 of the annex to decision 
22/CMP.1 shall be read as reference to “the guidance included in annex II to decision 
2/CMP.8 and in decision 6/CMP.9”;  
(l) Reference to “section I.D, greenhouse gas inv entory information, of the 
guidelines for the preparation of the information required under Article  7” in paragraph 51 
of the annex to decision 22/CMP.1 shall be read as reference to “guidance included in 
annex II to decision 2/CMP.8 and in decision 6/CMP. 9”; 
(m) Reference to “section I.E of the annex to decision 15/CMP.1” in paragraphs 
88(a) and 93 of the annex to decision 22/CMP.1 shall be read as a reference to “guidance 
included in section I.E of the annex to decision 15/CMP.1 and in annex III to decision  
3/CMP.11”;  
(n) References to “section 7.3.2.2 of the Good Practice Guidance and 
Uncertainty Management in National Greenhouse Gas Inventories and section 5.6 of the 
Good Practice Guidance for Land Use, Land -Use Change and Forestry” shall be read as 
references to “section 5.3 of Chapter 5 of volume 1 of the 2006 IPCC Guidelines”;  
(o) References to “paragraph 21 of the annex to decision 16/CMP.1” shall be 
read as references to “paragraph 26 of the annex to decision 2/CMP.7”;  
(p) Reference to “IPCC good practice guidance (chapter 7, section 7.2)” in 
paragraph 14(a) of the annex to decision 19/CMP.1 shall be read as reference to “chapter 
4.3, volume 1, of the 2006 IPCC Guidelines”;  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
32  (q) For the purpose of the second commitment period, all references to decision 
15/CMP.1 in part III of the annex to decision 22/CMP.1 shall be read as references to 
decision 15/CMP.1 in conjunction with annex III to decision 3/CMP.11;  
(r) References to “as reported in accordance with paragraph 6 of the annex to 
decision 13/CMP.1” in paragraph 85(a) of th e annex to decision 22/CMP.1 shall be read as 
references to “as submitted through the report to facilitate the calculation of the assigned 
amount of each Party included in Annex I with a commitment inscribed in the third column 
of Annex B to the Doha Amend ment in accordance with paragraph 2 of decision 2/CMP.8”;  
(s) The definition of key source category in paragraph 3(d) of decision 
19/CMP.1 shall be read as “ Key category  is one that is prioritized within the national 
inventory because its estimate has a signif icant influence on a country’s total inventory of 
greenhouse gases in terms of the absolute level of emissions, the trend in emissions and 
removals, or uncertainty in emissions or removals. Whenever the term key category is used, 
it includes both source an d sink categories”;  
4. Adopts  the revisions to the “Guidelines for review under Article 8 of the Kyoto 
Protocol” for the second commitment period contained in annex I;  
5. Also adopts  the revisions to the “Good practice guidance and adjustments under 
Article 5, p aragraph 2, of the Kyoto Protocol” for the second commitment period set out in 
annex II;  
6. Clarifies  that for the purpose of the second commitment period, the adjustments 
referred to in paragraph 5 above are not applicable to the Parties included in Annex I 
without quantified emission limitation and reduction commitments for the second 
commitment period;  
7. Requests  the secretariat, in view of the revision of the “Guidelines for review under 
Article 8 of the Kyoto Protocol”, to modify the relevant information te chnology tools, as 
needed, so as to support the implementation of the review process;  
8. Recognizes  that the deadline of June 2014, set out in decision 6/CMP.9, paragraph 4, 
for providing the upgraded CRF Reporter to Parties in order to enable them to submit their 
inventories, was not met;  
9. Notes  that the December 2014 software version of the CRF Reporte r was not 
functioning1 in such a manner as to enable Annex I Parties to prepare their inventory 
submissions;  
10. Reiterates that in 2015, Annex I Parties may submit their common reporting format 
tables after 15 April, but no later than the corresponding delay in CRF Reporter 
availability;  
11. Notes  that a delay in the submission of the common reporting format tables by a 
Party also delays the submission of the report to facilitate the calculation of its assigned 
amount referred to in decision 2/CMP.8, paragraph 2;  
12. Acknowledges  that Annex I Parties may submit the report to facilitate the calculation 
of the assigned amount referred to in paragraph 11 above and make the annual inventory 
submission after 15 April, but no later than the corresponding delay in CRF Reporte r 
availability;  
                                                           
 1 Functioning software means that the data on greenhouse gas  emissions/removals are reported 
accurately both in terms of CRF tables and Extensible Mar kup Language format.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 33 13. Urges  Annex I Parties to submit the report to facilitate the calculation of the 
assigned amount referred to in decision 2/CMP.8, paragraph 2, as soon as practically 
possible.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
34  Annex I  
Revisions to the guidelines for review under Article 8 of the Kyoto 
Protocol  
I. General approach to review  
1. For the purpose of the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol, footnote 1 
to the title of the annex to decision 22/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following footnote: 
“Article” in these guidelines refers to an Article of the Kyoto Protocol or an Article in the 
Doha Amendment to the Kyoto P rotocol (annex I to decision 1/CMP.8), unless otherwise 
specified.  
2. For the purpose of the second commitment period, footnotes 5 and 6 of the annex to 
decision 22/CMP.1 shall not apply.  
II. Review of report to facilitate the calculation of the assigned 
amount pursuant to Article 3, paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 8 bis  
3. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraphs 11 and 12 of the 
annex to decision 22/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the foll owing:  
 11. Each Party included in Annex I with a commitment inscribed in the third 
column of the table contained in Annex B to the Doha Amendment shall be subject 
to a review of the report to facilitate the calculation of its assigned amount pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of decision 2/CMP.8 for the second commitment period together with 
the inventory submission for the first year of the second commitment period.  
 12. The expert review team shall review the following information contained or 
referenced in the rep ort to facilitate the calculation of the assigned amount referred 
to in paragraph 2 of decision 2/CMP.8:  
(a) The calculation of the assigned amount pursuant to Article 3, paragraphs 7 
bis, 8 and 8 bis, in accordance with paragraph 2 of annex I to decision 3/CMP.11, 
and the calculation of the commitment period reserve, for conformity with the 
modalities for the accounting of assigned amounts under Article 7, paragraph 4 of 
the Kyoto Protocol, in accordance with the procedures contained in part III of these 
guide lines;1 
(b) The information provided in accordance with paragraphs 1(f) to 1(k) in annex 
I to decision 2/CMP.8 related to the accounting of activities under Article 3, 
paragraphs 3 and 4, of the Kyoto Protocol;  
(c) With regard to Parties included in Annex I with a  commitment inscribed in 
the third column of the table contained in Annex B to the Doha Amendment which 
did not have a quantified emission limitation and reduction target in the first 
commitment period:  
(i) The national system pursuant to Article 5, paragr aph 1, in 
accordance with the procedures contained in part IV of these guidelines;  
                                                           
 1  References to “these guidelines” hereinafter shall be understood as referring to the guidelines 
contained in the annex to decision 22/CMP.1, as amended by the current decision.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 35 (ii) The national registry pursuant to Article 7, paragraph 4, in 
accordance with the procedures contained in part V of these guidelines;  
(d) This review shall replace the revi ew of the same elements in the annual 
inventory review conducted in conjunction with this review. For Parties that have 
reached an agreement to fulfil their commitments under Article 3 jointly, in 
accordance with Article 4, the completeness of information referred to in paragraph 
11 of decision 3/CMP.11.  
4. Paragraph 14 of the annex to decision 22/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following:  
14. For Parties included in Annex I with a commitment inscribed in the third 
column of the table contained in Annex B to the D oha Amendment which did not 
have a quantified emission limitation and reduction target in the first commitment 
period, the review of the report to facilitate the calculation of the assigned amount 
for the second commitment period shall be conducted as an i n-country visit. For 
other Parties included in Annex I the review shall be conducted either as a 
centralized review or as an in -country visit, giving priority to in -country visits for 
those Parties that have not been reviewed in such a way in recent years.  
III. Annual review of national systems and national registries  
5. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 15(b)(iii) and (iv) of 
the annex to decision 22/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following:  
15(b)(iii)  Information provided on national syst ems or changes thereof  in 
accordance with the procedures contained in part IV of these guidelines;  
15(b)(iv)  Information provided on national registries or changes thereto  in 
accordance with the procedures contained in part V of these guidelines.  
6. For the purpose of the second commitment period, the following paragraph shall be 
inserted after paragraph 15(b)(iv) of the annex to decision 22/CMP.1:  
15(b)(iv) bis.  When a Party included in Annex I without a quantified emission 
limitation and reduction commitment for the second commitment period reports 
information on its national registry in accordance with decision 15/CMP.1, that 
information shall be reviewed.  
7. Paragraph 17 of the annex to decision 22/CMP.1 shall not apply for the purpose of 
the second commitment period.  
8. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 97 of the annex to 
decision 22/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following:  
97. The review of the national system shall be conducted in conjunction with the 
annual inventory review.   
IV. Annual review of standard independent assessment reports  
9. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 86(b)(ii) and (iii) of 
the annex to decision 22/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following:  
86(b)(ii)  Standard independent assessment report s (SIARs) prepared by the 
secretariat, including information of any discrepancies or non -replacements 
indicated by these reports;  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
36  86(b)(iii)  Information contained in the national registry that substantiates or 
clarifies the issues raised in the SIAR, if th e SIAR prepared by the secretariat 
indicates any issues related to accounting, transactions, and reporting of units under 
the Kyoto Protocol. In such cases Parties included in Annex I shall provide the 
expert review team with effective access to their nati onal registry during the review. 
The relevant parts of paragraphs 9 and 10 of part I of these guidelines shall also 
apply to this information.  
10. For the purpose of the second commitment period, the reference in paragraph 87(c) 
of the annex to decision 22/CMP .1 shall be updated as follows:  
87(c)  The calculation of the required level of the commitment period reserve is in 
accordance with decision 3/CMP.11.  
11. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 88(b) of the annex to 
decision 22/CMP.1 shall b e replaced by the following:  
88(b)  The information contained in the SIAR identifies any issues related to 
accounting, transactions and reporting of units under the Kyoto Protocol, whether 
these issues still exist and whether recommendations from previous r eviews have 
been implemented by the Party.  
12. Paragraph 88(c –g) and (i) of the annex to decision 22/CMP.1 shall not apply for the 
purpose of the second commitment period.  
13. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 88(h) of the annex to 
decisio n 22/CMP .1 shall be replaced by the following:  
88(h)  The required level of the commitment period reserve as reported, is 
calculated in accordance with decision 3/CMP.11.  
14. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 88(j)(v) of the annex 
to de cision 22/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following:  
88(j)(v)  Assess whether any discrepancy has been identified in the SIAR by 
the transaction log relating to transactions initiated by the Party, and if so the expert 
review team shall:  
 (i) Examine the ca use of the discrepancy and whether the Party or Parties 
has or have corrected the problem that caused the discrepancy;  
 (ii) Assess whether the problem that caused the discrepancy relates to the 
capacity of the national registry to ensure the accurate acco unting, issuance, 
holding, transfer, acquisition, cancellation and retirement of ERUs, CERs, 
tCERs, lCERs, AAUs and RMUs, the replacement of tCERs and lCERs, and 
the carry -over of ERUs, CERs and AAUs, and if so, initiate a thorough 
review of the registry s ystem in accordance with part V of these guidelines.  
15. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 88(k) of the annex to 
decision 22/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following:  
88(k)  Any non -replacement of units has been identified in the SIAR, and if so the 
expert review team shall:  
 (i) Examine the cause of the non -replacement and whether the Party has 
corrected the problem that caused  the non -replacement ; 
 (ii) Assess whether the problem that caused the non -replacement relates to 
the capacity  of the national registry  to ensure the accurate accounting, 
holding, transfer, acquisition, cancellation , and retirement of ERUs, CERs, 
tCERs, lCERs, AAUs and RMUs, and the replacement of tCERs and lCERs, FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 37 and if so, initiate a thorough review of the regis try system in accordance with 
part V of these guidelines.  
V. Consistency with the revised review guidelines under the 
Convention  
16. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraphs 55 –57 of the annex to 
decision 22/CMP.1 shall not apply and paragraph 52 shall be replaced by the following  
paragraph :  
52. Related to the organization of the inventory review in different phases and 
the scheduling of desk, centralized and in -country reviews, the same provisions as 
agreed in the “UNFCCC guidelines for the technical review of greenhouse gas 
inventories from Parties included in Annex I to the Convention” contained in the 
annex to decision 13/CP.20 shall apply.  
17. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 59 shall not a pply and 
the following paragraph shall replace paragraph 60 of the annex to decision 22/CMP.1:  
60. The initial check shall be conducted consistent with the initial assessment 
included in part III of the “UNFCCC guidelines for the technical review of 
green house gas inventories from Parties included in Annex I to the Convention” 
contained in the annex to decision 13/CP.20. The initial check shall in addition cover 
whether:  
(a) A Party included in Annex I to the Convention has failed to include an 
estimate fo r a source category (as defined in chapter 4 of volume 1 of the 2006 IPCC 
Guidelines ) that individually accounted for 7 per cent or more of the Party’s 
aggregate emissions, defined as the aggregated submitted emissions of the gases 
from the sources listed in Annex A to the Kyoto Protocol as contained in the Doha 
Amendment, in the most recent of the Party’s reviewed inventories in which the 
source was estimated;  
(b) An Annex I Party has failed to provide supplementary information in 
accordance with Annex II to decision 2/CMP.8 and decision 6/CMP.9.  
18. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraphs 61 –63 of the annex to 
decision 22/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following:  
61. For the scope of the individual review, the same provisions as included i n the 
“UNFCCC guidelines for the technical review of greenhouse gas inventories from 
Parties included in Annex I to the Convention”, contained in the annex to decision 
13/CP.20 , shall apply.  
19. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraphs 65 –67 of the annex to 
decision 22/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following:  
65. For the scope of the individual review, the same provisions as those included 
in the “UNFCCC Guidelines for the technical review of greenhouse gas inventories 
from Parties include d in Annex I to the Convention” included in the annex to 
decision 13/CP.20 shall apply. In addition, the inventory review shall:  
(a) Examine the application of the requirement of the 2006 IPCC Guidelines, the 
2013 Revised Supplementary Methods and Good Pr actice Guidance Arising from 
the Kyoto Protocol and the Wetlands Supplement  as adopted by the COP/MOP and 
the “UNFCCC Guidelines for the technical review of greenhouse gas inventories 
from Parties included in Annex I to the Convention ” contained in the ann ex to FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
38  decision 13/CP.20 and relevant decisions of the Conference of the Parties on those 
requirements, and identify any divergence from these requirements;  
(b) Assess whether the functions of the national system have been established to 
facilitate the cont inuous improvement of the greenhouse gas inventory and whether 
Quality Assurance/Quality Control procedures in accordance with guidelines for 
national systems in accordance with decision 19/CMP.1 have been implemented;  
(c) Assess the completeness and trans parency of supplementary information in 
accordance with reporting  under Article 7 of the Kyoto Protocol;  
(d) Assess whether the supplementary information reported for activities under 
Article 3, paragraph 3, forest management under Article 3,  paragraph 4 , and any 
elected activities under Article 3, paragraph 4, of the Kyoto Protocol has been 
estimated, reported and accounted in line with 2013 Revised Supplementary 
Methods and Good Practice Guidance Arising from the Kyoto Protocol, decision 
2/CMP.7, annex II  to decision 2/CMP.8 and decision 6/CMP.9.   
20. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 69(d)(i) of the annex 
to decision 22/CMP.1 shall be read as “Gaps in the inventory estimates for source 
categories or gases for which methods are provide d in the IPCC guidelines and the 
Wetlands Supplement, for Parties that have elected to account for wetland drainage and 
rewetting”.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 39 Annex II  
Revisions to the good practice guidance and adjustments under Article 
5, paragraph 2, of the Kyoto Protocol  
1. Paragraphs 1 and 2 of decision 20/CMP.1 shall not apply for the purpose of the 
second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol.  
2. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 11 of decision 
20/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following:  
 11. Decides  that an Annex I Party may submit a revised estimate for a part of its 
inventory of a year of the commitm ent period to which an adjustment was 
previously applied, provided that the revised estimate is submitted, at the latest, in 
conjunction with the inventory for the final year of the commitment period. Subject 
to a review under Article 8 and the acceptance of the revised estimate by the expert 
review team, the revised estimate shall replace the adjusted estimate. In the event of 
a disagreement between the Annex I Party and the expert review team regarding the 
revised estimate, the issue will be forwarded to the Compliance Committee, which 
will resolve the disagreement in accordance with the procedures and mechanisms on 
compliance. The option for an Annex I Party to submit a revised estimate for a part 
of its inventory to which an adjustment was previously app lied should not prevent 
Annex I Parties from making their best efforts to correct the problem at the time it 
was initially identified and in accordance with the time frame set forth in the 
guidelines for review under Article 8.  
3. For the purpose of the secon d commitment period, the following paragraph shall be 
inserted after paragraph 11 of decision 20/CMP.1:  
 12. Decides  that Parties included in Annex I without quantified emission limitation 
and reduction commitments for the second commitment period may subm it a revised 
estimate for a part of their inventory or a single year during the review process, 
noting that the application of the adjustments is not applicable to such Parties. 
Subject to a review under Article 8 of the Kyoto Protocol and the acceptance o f the 
revised estimate by the expert review team, the revised estimate shall replace the 
previous estimate. The option for a Party to submit a revised estimate for a part of its 
inventory should not prevent such a Party from making its best efforts to corr ect the 
problem at the time it was initially identified and in accordance with the time frame 
set forth in the guidelines for review under Article 8 of the Kyoto Protocol.  
I. Technical guidance on methodologies for adjustments under 
Article 5, paragraph 2, of  the Kyoto  Protocol  
4. Footnote 3 in paragraph  4 of the annex to decision 20/CMP.1 shall not apply for the 
purpose of the second commitment period.  
5. For the purpose of the second  commitment period, paragraph 13(c) of the annex to 
decision 20/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following:  
13(c)  For cropland management, grazing land management, revegetation and 
wetland drainage and rewetting under Article 3, paragraph 4, any adjustment t o the 
emissions or removals in the base year resulting from these activities should be 
considered and applied according to the choice made by a Party regarding the FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
40  periodicity of accounting of these activities (e.g. annually or at the end of the 
commitment  period). In the case that the Party has chosen to account annually for 
these activities and submits recalculated estimates, adjustments may be applied 
retroactively for the base year, provided these recalculated estimates have not yet 
been subject to revi ew and the provisions of paragraph 4 above apply to these 
recalculated estimates.  
6. For the purpose of the second commitment period, the following paragraph shall be 
inserted after paragraph 13 of the annex to decision 20/CMP.1:  
13 bis . Adjustments shall be applied to technical corrections to forest management 
reference levels when the reported data on forest management or forest land 
remaining forest land used to establish the reference level are recalculated, and the 
recalculations have not resulted in a te chnical correction to the reference level which 
ensures methodological consistency between the corrected forest management 
reference level and the reported estimates for forest management. The methods and 
conservativeness factors shall be applied to adjust ments to technical corrections for 
forest management using the guidance in the attachment. When an adjustment to a 
forest management emission/removals estimate also results in an adjustment to the 
technical correction, conservativeness factors should not b e applied to the technical 
correction.  
7. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 17 of the annex to 
decision 20/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following:  
17. If the expert review team finds that an estimate submitted by a Party leads to 
an underestimation of emissions or overestimation of removals in the base year or in 
the forest management reference level after any technical correction, or an 
overestimation of emissions or underestimation of removals in a year of the 
commitment period or forest management reference level after any technical 
correction, an adjustment calculated in accordance with paragraph 54 below should 
not be applied.  
8. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 18 of the annex to 
decision 20/CMP.1 shall be  replaced by the following:  
18. Similarly, if the expert review team finds that an estimate submitted by a 
Party leads to an underestimation of removals resulting from any activity under 
Article 3, paragraph 3, or any elected activity under Article 3, para graph 4, in a year 
of the commitment period, or an overestimation of removals in the base year for any 
elected activity under Article 3, paragraph 4 (cropland management, grazing land 
management, revegetation and wetland drainage and rewetting), the adjust ment 
calculated in accordance with paragraph 54 below should not be applied if such a 
calculation would result in an adjusted estimate that is less conservative than the 
original estimate submitted by the Party.  
9. Reference to “paragraph 21 of the annex to d ecision 16/CMP.1” in paragraph 21 of 
the annex to decision 20/CMP.1 shall be read as a reference to “paragraph 26 of the annex 
to decision 2/CMP.7”.  
10. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 28 of the annex to 
decision 20/CMP .1 shall be re placed by the following:  
28. In the case where none of the basic adjustment methods listed in table 1 is 
suitable for a given adjustment case, expert review teams may use other adjustment 
methods. If adjustment methods other than those included in this tec hnical guidance 
are applied, expert review teams should report the reason for not using any of the FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 41 basic adjustment methods of this technical guidance and should justify why they 
consider the method chosen as appropriate.  
11. For the purpose of the second comm itment period, paragraph 34(a) of the annex to 
decision 20/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following, including the additional footnote:  
34(a)  IPCC default values from the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National 
Greenhouse Gas Inventories  (hereinafter referred to  as the 2006 IPCC Guidelines) , 
the 2013 Revised Supplementary Methods and Good Practice Guidance Arising 
from the Kyoto Protocol and the  2013 Supplement to the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for 
National Greenhouse Gas Inventories: Wetlands  (hereinafter referred to as the 
Wetlands Supplement) ,1 or other recommended international data sources included 
in the inventory review resources listed in appendix I to that document, and 
consistent with the IPCC good practice guidance. If emission factors or other 
inventory para meters from other international data sources are used, the expert 
review team should, in the review report, justify and document the reason s for their 
use. 
12. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 38 of the annex to 
decision 20/CMP.1 shal l be replaced by the following:  
38. When using an average inventory parameter from a cluster of countries, 
assumptions made in choosing the cluster should be documented, as should how the 
given inventory average parameter compares with the default parameter or range 
provided in the 2006 IPCC  Guidelines, the 2013 Revised Supplementary Methods 
and Good Practice Guidance Arising from the Kyoto Protocol and the  Wetlands 
Supplement , as applicable , where available. Similarly, when clustering is related to 
the use of a driver (application of an average driver -based emission or removal rate) 
from a cluster of countries, assumptions made for the composition of the cluster and 
the established relationship with the driver should be documented.  
13. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragrap h 42 of the annex to 
decision 20/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following:  
42. This basic adjustment method refers to tier 1 methods in the 2006 IPCC 
Guidelines, the 2013 Revised Supplementary Methods and Good Practice Guidance 
Arising from the Kyoto Proto col and the  Wetlands Supplement.  The Wetlands 
Supplement should be consulted only in cases where the Party has elected the 
activity wetland drainage and rewetting and in cases where the Party applies 
methods from the Wetlands Supplement on a voluntary basi s. This adjustment 
method will be applicable only if activity data are available from national sources in 
accordance with paragraph 29 above or from international data sources as described 
in paragraph 31 above, or are obtained as described in paragraph 33  above. An 
emission factor or other inventory parameter as required by the method and obtained 
as described in paragraph 34 above should be used.   
14. Paragraphs 61, 64, 68, and 74 of the annex to decision 20/CMP.1 shall not apply for 
the purpose of the second  commitment period.  
15. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 63 of the annex to 
decision 20/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following paragraph:  
63. If adjusting hydrofluorocarbon (HFC), perfluorocarbon (PFC), nitrogen 
trifluoride (NF 3) and sulphur hexafluoride (SF 6) estimates from the consumption of 
halocarbons, NF 3 and SF 6, consideration should be given to the uncertainty of sales 
                                                           
 1 When wetland drainage and rewetting has been elect ed, the Wetlands Supplement should have the 
highest order of preference for applicable categories . FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
42  figures (e.g. for sales of these chemicals to the foam blowing industry) and other 
parameters (such as the co mposition of the mix in coolants) as given in the 2006 
IPCC Guidelines.  
16. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 69 of the annex to 
decision 20/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following:  
69. Estimates of emissions and removals in the LULUC F sector and from 
LULUCF activities may be based not on annual data but on extrapolations and may 
be recalculated at a later stage. For this reason, the application of an adjustment to 
the base year of cropland management, grazing land management, revegeta tion and 
wetland drainage and rewetting through an extrapolation should be done with care, 
given that data may not be reported for the years between the base year and the 
commitment period. If an extrapolation is needed for the base year of these 
activitie s, the expert review team could use as a driver the time series for the 
LULUCF sector included in the annual inventory submission under the Convention.  
17. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 1(a) of appendix III to 
the annex to decision  20/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following:  
1(a) For Annex A sources, one for use in the calculation of adjustments for an 
base year emission estimate and a commitment period recovery estimate (e.g. 
landfill gas recovery) and one for the calculation of a djustments of emissions for a 
year of the commitment period and base year’s recovery estimates.  
18. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 3 of appendix III to the 
annex to decision 20/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following:  
3. When a giv en category is not covered in the table, the provision of paragraph 
55 of the technical guidance applies, such as for categories “other” under energy, 
industrial processes and other product use, agriculture, LULUCF and waste.  
II. Procedures for adjustments und er Article 5, paragraph 2, of 
the Kyoto Protocol  
19. For the purpose of the second commitment period, paragraph 80(b) of the annex to 
decision 22/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the following:  
80(b)  The adjustment procedure should only commence after the Party has  had an 
opportunity to correct a problem and if the expert review team finds that the Party 
has not adequately corrected the problem through the provision of an acceptable 
revised estimate, within the time frames set out in paragraphs 74 and 76 above and i f 
the expert review team assumes that the change resulting from the adjustment will 
be above the threshold given in paragraph 37 of the annex to decision 24/CP.19.  
III. Tables  of conservativeness factors  
20. For the purpose of the second commitment period, tables 1  to 4b in appendix III to 
the annex to decision 20/CMP.1 shall be replaced by the tables in the appendix.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 43 Appendix  
 Tables of conservativeness factors  
Table 1  
Conservativeness factors for adjustments to emission estimates in the base year or recovery estimates in the 
commitment period (for sources in Annex A to the Kyoto Protocol)  
 
  
CO 2 CH4 N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF3 CO 2 CH4 N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF3
1. Energy
A. Fuel combustion (sectoral approach)
     1. Energy industries 0.98 0.82 0.73 0.98 0.94 0.82 0.73
     2. Manufacturing industries and construction 0.98 0.82 0.73 0.94 0.94 0.73 0.73
     3.a  Domestic aviation and navigation 0.98 0.89 0.82 0.82 0.82 0.73 0.73
     3.b-c Road transport and railways 0.98 0.89 0.82 0.94 0.94 0.89 0.73
     4. Other sectors 0.98 0.82 0.73 0.94 0.94 0.73 0.73
     5. Other 0.98 0.82 0.73 0.82 0.94 0.73 0.73
     Biomass (all fuel combustion sources) 0.82 0.82 0.82 0.73 0.73
     Off-road vehicles 0.98 0.73 0.73 0.89 0.82 0.73 0.73
     Fuel combustion (reference approach) 0.98 0.98 0.98
B. Fugitive emissions from fuels
     1. Solid fuels 0.73 0.73 0.98 0.73 0.73
     2. Oil and natural gas 0.73 0.73 0.73 0.98 0.73 0.73 0.73
     C. CO 2 Transport and storage 0.82 0.98 0.73
2. Industrial processes and product use
     A. Mineral industry 0.94 0.94 0.94
     B. Chemical industry 0.98 0.73 0.89 0.89 0.82 0.82 0.82 0.94 0.94 0.73 0.89 0.89 0.73 0.73 0.73
     C. Metal industry 0.98 0.82 0.98 0.82 0.82 0.98 0.94 0.73 0.94 0.82 0.82
     D. Non-energy products from fuels
and solvent use0.89 0.94 0.82
     E. Electronics industry 0.73 0.73 0.73 0.94 0.73 0.73 0.73
     F. Product uses as substitutes for ozone depleting substances 0.82 0.82 0.82 0.82 0.82
     G. Other product manufacture and use 0.98 0.89 0.89 0.89 0.94 0.82 0.82
     H. Other
3. Agriculture
     A. Enteric fermentation 0.89 0.98 0.89
     B. Manure management 0.89 0.82 0.98 0.89 0.82
     C. Rice cultivation 0.89 0.94 0.89
     D. Agricultural soils 0.73 0.82 0.73
     E. Prescribed burning of savannas 0.94 0.94 0.82 0.82 0.82
     F. Field burning of agricultural residues 0.94 0.94 0.82 0.82 0.82
     G. Liming 0.98 0.94 0.94
     H. Urea application 0.89 0.94 0.82
     I. Other
5. Waste
     A. Solid waste disposal 0.89 0.89 0.82 0.73
     B. Biological treatment of solid waste 0.73 0.73 0.94 0.73 0.73
     C. Incineration and open burning of waste 0.89 0.82 0.89 0.82 0.73 0.73 0.73
     D. Wastewater treatment and discharge 0.89 0.89 0.98 0.82 0.82
     E. OtherActivity 
dataEmission estimates Emission factorsFCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
44  Table 2  
Conservativeness factors fo r adjustments to emission estimates in the commitment year or recovery estimates in 
the base year (for sources in Annex A to the Kyoto Protocol)  
 
 
 
 
 
  
CO 2 CH4 N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF3 CO 2 CH4 N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF3
1. Energy
A. Fuel combustion (sectoral approach)
     1. Energy industries 1.02 1.21 1.37 1.02 1.06 1.21 1.37
     2. Manufacturing industries and construction 1.02 1.21 1.37 1.06 1.06 1.37 1.37
     3.a  Domestic aviation and navigation 1.02 1.12 1.21 1.21 1.21 1.37 1.37
     3.b-c Road transport and railways 1.02 1.12 1.21 1.06 1.06 1.12 1.37
     4. Other sectors 1.02 1.21 1.37 1.06 1.06 1.37 1.37
     5. Other 1.02 1.21 1.37 1.21 1.06 1.37 1.37
     Biomass (all fuel combustion sources) 1.21 1.21 1.21 1.37 1.37
     Off-road vehicles 1.02 1.37 1.37 1.12 1.21 1.37 1.37
     Fuel combustion (reference approach) 1.02 1.02 1.02
B. Fugitive emissions from fuels
     1. Solid fuels 1.37 1.37 1.02 1.37 1.37
     2. Oil and natural gas 1.37 1.37 1.37 1.02 1.37 1.37 1.37
     C. CO 2 Transport and storage 1.21 1.02 1.37
2. Industrial processes and product use
     A. Mineral industry 1.06 1.06 1.06
     B. Chemical industry 1.02 1.37 1.12 1.12 1.21 1.21 1.21 1.06 1.06 1.37 1.12 1.12 1.37 1.37 1.37
     C. Metal industry 1.02 1.21 1.02 1.21 1.21 1.02 1.06 1.37 1.06 1.21 1.21
     D. Non-energy products from fuels
and solvent use1.12 1.06 1.21
     E. Electronics industry 1.37 1.37 1.37 1.06 1.37 1.37 1.37
     F. Product uses as substitutes for Ozone Depleting Substances 1.21 1.21 1.21 1.21 1.21
     G. Other product manufacture and use 1.02 1.12 1.12 1.12 1.06 1.21 1.21
     H. Other
3. Agriculture
     A. Enteric fermentation 1.12 1.02 1.12
     B. Manure management 1.12 1.21 1.02 1.12 1.21
     C. Rice cultivation 1.12 1.06 1.12
     D. Agricultural soils 1.37 1.21 1.37
     E. Prescribed burning of savannas 1.06 1.06 1.21 1.21 1.21
     F. Field burning of agricultural residues 1.06 1.06 1.21 1.21 1.21
     G. Liming 1.02 1.06 1.06
     H. Urea application 1.12 1.06 1.21
     I. Other
5. Waste
     A. Solid waste disposal 1.12 1.12 1.21 1.37
     B. Biological treatment of solid waste 1.37 1.37 1.06 1.37 1.37
     C. Incineration and open burning of waste 1.12 1.21 1.12 1.21 1.37 1.37 1.37
     D. Wastewater treatment and discharge 1.12 1.12 1.02 1.21 1.21
     E. OtherEmission factorsActivity 
dataEmission estimatesFCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 45 
CO 2 CH 4 N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF 3 CO 2 CH 4 N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF 3
4. Land use, land-use change and forestry
     A.1. Forest land remaining forest land
          Carbon stock change in living biomass0.89 0.98 0.89
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 0.73 0.98 0.73
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsb 0.73 0.94 0.73
     A.2. Land converted to forest land
          Carbon stock change in living biomass 0.89 0.94 0.89
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.82 0.94 0.82
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.94 0.82
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soils 0.73 0.94 0.73
     B.1. Cropland land remaining cropland
          Carbon stock change  in living biomass 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 0.73 0.98 0.73
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsb 0.82 0.94 0.82
     B.2. Land converted to crop land
          Carbon stock change in living biomass 0.82 0.94 0.82
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.82 0.94 0.82
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.94 0.82
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsb0.82 0.94 0.82
     C.1. Grassland remaining grass land
          Carbon stock change  in living biomass
               (Root-to-shoot ratio) 0.73 0.98 0.73
               (All other parameters) 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 0.73 0.98 0.73
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsb 0.82 0.94 0.82
     C.2. Land converted to grassland
          Carbon stock change  in living biomass
               (Root-to-shoot ratio) 0.73 0.94 0.73
               (All other parameters) 0.82 0.94 0.82
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.82 0.94 0.82
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.94 0.82
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsb0.82 0.94 0.82Emission factorsActivity 
dataEmission estimatesTable 3  
Conservativeness factors for net emissions for adjustments to the land use, land -use change and forestry sector 
during the initial review for the purpose of establishing a Party’s assigned amount under Article 3, paragraphs 7 
and 8, of the Kyoto Protocola FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
46   
Note : Entries are marked “NA” because Parties are either not required to report this category in the greenhouse gas 
inventories or are not required to include it in their national totals.  
Abbreviation:  NA = Not applicable.  
a  Net emissions include  net decreases in carbon stocks in individual carbon pools.  
CO 2 CH 4 N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF 3 CO 2 CH 4 N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF 3
     D.1. Wetlands remaining wetlands
     D.1.1  Peat extraction remaining peat extraction
         Carbon stock change in dead organic matter0.73 0.82 0.73
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.73 0.82 0.73
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.73 0.89 0.82 0.73 0.73
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soils 0.73 0.89 0.82 0.73 0.73
     D.1.2 Flooded land remaining flooded landc
     D.2. Land converted to wetlands
          Carbon stock change  in living biomass 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soils 0.73 0.94 0.73
     D.2.1  Lands converted to peat extraction
          Carbon stock change  in living biomass 0.73 0.82 0.73
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 0.73 0.82 0.73
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.73 0.82 0.73
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.73 0.89 0.82 0.73 0.73
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soils 0.73 0.89 0.82 0.73 0.73
     D.2.2 Land converted to flooded land
          Carbon stock change  in living biomass 0.82 0.89 0.82
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter NA 0.89
          Carbon stock change in litter NA 0.89
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils NA 0.89
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soils NA 0.89
     E.1. Settlements remaining settlements
          Carbon stock change  in living biomassd0.89 0.89 0.82
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 0.73 0.98 0.73
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.73 0.98 0.73
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsb0.82 0.98 0.82
     E.2. Land converted to settlements
          Carbon stock change  in living biomassd0.89 0.89 0.82
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 0.73 0.98 0.73
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.73 0.98 0.73
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsb0.82 0.94 0.82
     F.1. Other land remaining other landc
     F.2. Land converted to other land
          Carbon stock change  in living biomass 0.89 0.89 0.82
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.94 0.82
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsb0.82 0.94 0.82
Cross-cutting categories
     Direct N2O emissions from N inputs to managed soils 0.73 0.94 0.73
     Emissions and removals from drainage and rewetting and other 
management of organic and mineral soils 
          Drained organic soilse0.73 0.73 0.73 0.94 0.73 0.73 0.73
          Rewetted organic soils 0.73 0.73 NA 0.94 0.73 0.73
     Direct N2O emissions from N mineralization/immobilization 
associated with loss/gain of soil organic matter0.73 0.94 0.73
     Indirect N2O emissions from managed soils 0.73 0.94 0.73
     Biomass burning 0.82 0.82 0.82 0.89 0.73 0.73 0.73
     Harvested wood products 0.89 0.89 0.82Emission factorsActivity 
dataEmission estimatesFCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 47 b   In accordance with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)  2013 Supplement to the 2006 IPCC 
Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories: Wetlands  (chapter 2), the uncertainty f or drained organic soils is 20 per 
cent, and conservativeness factors are 0.94. The uncertainty for carbon dioxide (CO 2) emissions is higher than 150  per cent for 
drained and rewetted inland organic soils (conservativeness factors of 0.73) as presented in this table under “emissions and 
removals from drainage and rewetting”.  
c   No methodologies are available in the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories (hereinafter the 
2006 IPCC Guidelines).  
d   In accordance with the 2006 IPCC Guidelines, t he activity data for this subcategory (living biomass) is not land area but 
crown area or number of trees depending on the methodology.  
e   Information on CO 2 is also included here, although emissions/removals may be reported in the land use remaining in the 
same category and land converted to a new land use category.  
  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
48  Table 4  
Conservativeness factors for net removals for adjustments to the land use, land -use change and forestry sector 
during the initial review for the purpose of establishing a Party’s assigne d amount under Article 3, paragraphs 7 
and 8, of the Kyoto Protocola 
  
CO 2 CH 4 N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF 3 CO 2 CH 4N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF 3
4. Land use, land-use change and forestry
     A.1. Forest land remaining forest land
          Carbon stock change in living biomass1.12 1.02 1.12
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 1.37 1.02 1.37
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsb 1.37 1.06 1.37
     A.2. Land converted to forest land
          Carbon stock change in living biomass 1.12 1.06 1.12
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.21 1.06 1.21
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.06 1.21
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soils 1.37 1.06 1.37
     B.1. Cropland land remaining cropland
          Carbon stock change  in living biomass 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 1.37 1.02 1.37
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsb 1.21 1.06 1.21
     B.2. Land converted to crop land
          Carbon stock change in living biomass 1.21 1.06 1.21
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.21 1.06 1.21
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.06 1.21
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsb1.21 1.06 1.21
     C.1. Grassland remaining grass land
          Carbon stock change  in living biomass
               (Root-to-shoot ratio) 1.37 1.02 1.37
               (All other parameters) 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 1.37 1.02 1.37
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsb 1.21 1.06 1.21
     C.2. Land converted to grassland
          Carbon stock change  in living biomass
               (Root-to-shoot ratio) 1.37 1.06 1.37
               (All other parameters) 1.21 1.06 1.21
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.21 1.06 1.21
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.06 1.21
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsb1.21 1.06 1.21Emission factorsActivity 
dataEmission estimatesFCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 49  Note : Entries are marked “NA” because Parties are either not required to report this category in the greenhouse gas inventories or 
are not required to include it in their national totals.  
 Abbreviations:  NA = Not applicable.  
CO 2 CH 4 N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF 3 CO 2 CH 4N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF 3
     D.1. Wetlands remaining wetlands
     D.1.1  Peat extraction remaining peat extraction
         Carbon stock change (carbon stock change) in dead organic 
matter1.37 1.21 1.37
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.37 1.21 1.37
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.37 1.12 1.21 1.37 1.37
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soils 1.37 1.12 1.21 1.37 1.37
     D.1.2 Flooded land remaining flooded landc
     D.2. Land converted to wetlands
          Carbon stock change  in living biomass 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soils 1.37 1.06 1.37
     D.2.1  Lands converted to peat extraction
          Carbon stock change  in living biomass 1.37 1.21 1.37
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 1.37 1.21 1.37
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.37 1.21 1.37
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.37 1.12 1.21 1.37 1.37
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soils 1.37 1.12 1.21 1.37 1.37
     D.2.2 Land converted to flooded land
          Carbon stock change  in living biomass 1.21 1.12 1.21
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter NA 1.12
          Carbon stock change in litter NA 1.12
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils NA 1.12
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soils NA 1.12
     E.1. Settlements remaining settlements
          Carbon stock change  in living biomassd1.12 1.12 1.21
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 1.37 1.02 1.37
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.37 1.02 1.37
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsb1.21 1.02 1.21
     E.2. Land converted to settlements
          Carbon stock change  in living biomassd1.12 1.12 1.21
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 1.37 1.02 1.37
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.37 1.02 1.37
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsb1.21 1.06 1.21
     F.1. Other land remaining other landc
     F.2. Land converted to other land
          Carbon stock change  in living biomass 1.12 1.12 1.21
          Carbon stock change in dead organic matter 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.06 1.21
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsb1.21 1.06 1.21
Cross-cutting categories
     Direct N2O emissions from N inputs to managed soils 1.37 1.06 1.37
     Emissions and removals from drainage and rewetting and other 
management of organic and mineral soils 
          Drained organic soilse1.37 1.37 1.37 1.06 1.37 1.37 1.37
          Rewetted organic soils 1.37 1.37 NA 1.06 1.37 1.37
     Direct N2O emissions from N mineralization/immobilization 
associated with loss/gain of soil organic matter1.37 1.06 1.37
     Indirect N2O emissions from managed soils 1.37 1.06 1.37
     Biomass burning 1.21 1.21 1.21 1.12 1.37 1.37 1.37
     Harvested wood products 1.12 1.12 1.21Emission factorsActivity 
dataEmission estimatesFCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
50  a   Net removals include net decreases in carbon stocks in individual carbon pools.  
b   In accordance with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 2013 Supplement to the 2006 IPCC 
Guidelines for National Gr eenhouse Gas Inventories: Wetlands  (chapter 2), the uncertainty for drained organic soils is 20  per 
cent, and conservativeness factors are 1.06. The uncertainty for carbon dioxide ( CO 2) emissions is higher than 150  per cent for 
drained and rewetted inland organic soils (conservativeness factors of 1.37) as presented in this table under “emissions and 
removals from drainage and rewetting”.  
c   No methodologies are available in the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories (hereinafter the 
2006  IPCC Guidelines).  
d   In accordance with the 2006 IPCC Guidelines, the activity data for this subcategory (living biomass) is not land area, but 
crown area or number of trees depending on the methodology.  
e   Information on CO 2 is also included here, although emi ssions/removals may be reported in the land use remaining in the 
same category and land converted to a new land use category.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 51 Table 5  
Conservativeness factors for adjustments to land use, land -use change and forestry activities under Article 3, 
paragraphs 3 and 4, of the Kyoto Protocol: Conservativeness factors for removalsa in a year of the commitme nt 
period/emissionsa in the base yearb 
  
CO 2 CH 4 N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF 3 CO 2 CH 4 N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF 3
     Afforestation and reforestation (total)
          Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 0.89 0.94 0.89
          Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 0.89 0.94 0.89
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.82 0.94 0.82
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.94 0.82
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc0.73 0.94 0.73
          Harvest wood products 0.89 0.82 0.73
          (Land subject to natural disturbances)d
               Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 0.89 0.94 0.89
               Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 0.89 0.94 0.89
               Carbon stock change in litter 0.82 0.94 0.82
               Carbon stock change in dead wood 0.73 0.94 0.73
               Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.94 0.82
               Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc0.73 0.94 0.73
               Harvest wood products 0.89 0.82 0.73
     Deforestation (total)e
          Carbon stock change in above-ground biomassf0.73 0.94 0.73
          Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 0.82 0.94 0.82
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.94 0.82
               Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc0.82 0.94 0.82
          Harvest wood products 0.89 0.82 0.73
     Forest management (total)g
          Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 0.89 0.98 0.89
          Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 0.89 0.98 0.89
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 0.73 0.98 0.73
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.98 0.82
               Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc0.73 0.94 0.73
          Harvest wood products 0.89 0.82 0.73
          (Newly established forest(CEF-ne))g
               Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 0.89 0.94 0.89
               Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 0.89 0.94 0.89
               Carbon stock change in litter 0.82 0.94 0.82
               Carbon stock change in dead wood 0.73 0.94 0.73
               Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.94 0.82
               Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc0.73 0.94 0.73
               Carbon stock at harvestingh
               Harvest wood products 0.89 0.82 0.73
          (Harvested and converted forest plantations (CEF-hc))i
               Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 0.73 0.94 0.73
               Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 0.82 0.94 0.82
               Carbon stock change in litter 0.73 0.94 0.82
               Carbon stock change in dead wood 0.73 0.94 0.73
               Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.94 0.82
               Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc0.82 0.94 0.82
               Harvest wood products 0.89 0.82 0.73Emission factorsActivity 
dataEmission estimatesFCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
52   Note : Entries are marked “NA” because Parties are either not required to report this category in the greenhouse 
gas inventories or are not required to include it in their national totals.  
 Abbreviations:  NA = Not  applicable.  
CO 2 CH 4 N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF 3 CO 2 CH 4 N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF 3
Forest management (Land subject to natural disturbances)g,i0.73
          Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 0.82 0.94 0.82
          Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 0.82 0.94 0.82
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.94 0.82
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc0.89 0.94 0.82
          Harvest wood products 0.89 0.82 0.73
          Technical correctionj
     Cropland managementk
          Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 0.73 0.98 0.73
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.98 0.82
           Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc0.82 0.94 0.82
     Grazingland managementk
          Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 0.73 0.98 0.73
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 0.73 0.98 0.73
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc0.82 0.94 0.82
     Revegetationk
          Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 0.73 0.98 0.73
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.73 0.98 0.73
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 0.73 0.98 0.73
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.82 0.98 0.82
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc0.82 0.94 0.82
     Wetland drainage and rewettingk
          Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Carbon stock change in litter 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 0.73 0.94 0.73
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 0.73 0.73 0.73 0.94 0.73 0.73 0.73
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc0.73 0.73 NA 0.94 0.73 0.73
     Harvest wood products
          From afforestation/reforestation 0.89 0.82 0.73
          From deforestation 0.89 0.82 0.73
          From forest management 0.89 0.82 0.73
Cross-cutting categories
     Direct and indirect N2O emissions from N fertilization 0.73 0.94 0.73
     CH4 and N2O emissions from drained and rewetted organic soilsl
          Drained organic soilsl0.73 0.73 0.73 0.94 0.73 0.73 0.73
          Rewetted organic soilsl0.73 0.73 NA 0.94 0.73 0.73
     N2O emissions from N mineralization/immobilization due to 
carbon loss/gain associated with land-use conversions and 
management change in mineral soils0.73 0.94 0.73
     Greenhouse gas emissions from biomass burning (CO2, CH4, 
N2O)0.82 0.82 0.82 0.89 0.73 0.73 0.73Emission factorsActivity 
dataEmission estimatesFCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 53 a   Net emissions and removals include net increases and net decreases in carbon stocks in individual carbon pools 
(in a year during the commitment period and in the base year, respectively).  
b   For the base year, conservativeness factors given in th is table apply to cropland management, grazing land 
management, wetland drainage and rewetting and revegetation under Article 3, paragraph 4, of the Kyoto Protocol.  
c   In accordance with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 2013 Supplement to the 2006 IPCC 
Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories: Wetlands (chapter 2) , the uncertainty for drained organic soils is 
20 per cent, and conservativeness factors are 0.94/1.06. The uncertainty for carbon dioxide ( CO 2) emissions is higher 
than 150 per cent for drained and rewetted inland organic soils (conservativeness factors of 0.73/1.37) as presented in 
this table under “emissions and removals from drainage and rewetting”.  
d   In cases where adjustments are calculated for other variables related to this category in common reporting 
format (CRF) table 4(KP -I)A.1.1, the conservativeness factor for the specific pool should be applied. This applies, in 
particular, to the areas subject to natural disturbances in the year that it was first reported: bac kground levels, margins, 
the emissions in the inventory that can be excluded and subsequent removals in the inventory year. For salvage 
logging, the conservativeness factors for harvest wood products should apply.  
e   In cases where adjustments are calculated for other variables related to this category in CRF table 4(KP -I)A.2, 
the conservativeness factor for the specific pool should be applied. This applies, in particular, to the areas subject to 
natural disturbances in the year that it was first reported: bac kground levels, margins, the emissions in the inventory 
that can be excluded, and subsequent removals in inventory year. For salvage logging, the conservativeness factors for 
harvest wood products should apply.  
f   The same conservativeness factors apply for d eforested land previously reported under afforestation/reforestation 
and forest management and subject to natural disturbances.  
g   In cases where adjustments are calculated for other variables related to this category in CRF tables 4(KP -I)B.1, 
4(KP -I)B.1.1 an d 4(KP -I)B.1.2, the conservativeness factor for the specific pool should be applied.  
h   For all these cases, assume the uncertainties for the specific pool that are being adjusted.  
i   The conservativeness factors for deforestation were assumed for this activity.  
j   In cases where adjustments are calculated for the technical correction, the conservativeness factor for the specific 
pool should be applied.  
k   The uncertainty for activity data for the base year is 50  per cent, and the conservativeness factors are 0.89/1.12 . 
l   Information on CO 2 is also included here, although emissions/removals may be reported in the land use 
remaining in the same category and land converted to a new land -use category.  
  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
54  Table 6  
Conservativeness factors for adjustments to land use, land -use change and forestry activities under 
Article 3, paragraphs 3 and 4, of the Kyoto Protocol: Conservativeness factors for emissionsa in a 
year during the commitment period/ removalsa in the base y earb 
  
CO 2 CH 4 N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF 3 CO 2 CH 4N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF 3
     Afforestation and reforestation (total)
          Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 1.12 1.06 1.12
          Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 1.12 1.06 1.12
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.21 1.06 1.21
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Net carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.06 1.21
          Net carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc1.37 1.06 1.37
          Harvest wood products 1.12 1.21 1.37
          (Land subject to natural disturbances)d
               Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 1.12 1.06 1.12
               Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 1.12 1.06 1.12
               Carbon stock change in litter 1.21 1.06 1.21
               Carbon stock change in dead wood 1.37 1.06 1.37
               Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.06 1.21
               Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc1.37 1.06 1.37
               Harvest wood products 1.12 1.21 1.37
     Deforestation (total)e
          Carbon stock change in above-ground biomassf1.37 1.06 1.37
          Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 1.21 1.06 1.21
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.06 1.21
               Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc1.21 1.06 1.21
          Harvest wood products 1.12 1.21 1.37
     Forest management (total)g
          Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 1.12 1.02 1.12
          Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 1.12 1.02 1.12
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 1.37 1.02 1.37
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.02 1.21
               Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc1.37 1.06 1.37
          Harvest wood products 1.12 1.21 1.37
          (Newly established forest(CEF-ne))g
               Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 1.12 1.06 1.12
               Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 1.12 1.06 1.12
               Carbon stock change in litter 1.21 1.06 1.21
               Carbon stock change in dead wood 1.37 1.06 1.37
               Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.06 1.21
               Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc1.37 1.06 1.37
               Carbon stock at harvestingh
               Harvest wood products 1.12 1.21 1.37
          (Harvested and converted forest plantations (CEF-hc))i
               Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 1.37 1.06 1.37
               Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 1.21 1.06 1.21
               Carbon stock change in litter 1.37 1.06 1.21
               Carbon stock change in dead wood 1.37 1.06 1.37
               Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.06 1.21
               Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc1.21 1.06 1.21
               Harvest wood products 1.12 1.21 1.37Emission factorsActivity 
dataEmission estimatesFCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 55  Note : Entries are marked “NA” because Parties are either not required to report this category in the greenhouse gas 
inventories or are not required to include it in their national totals.  
 Abbreviations:  NA = Not applicable.  
CO 2 CH 4 N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF 3 CO 2 CH 4N2O HFCs PFCs SF6 NF 3
Forest management (Land subject to natural disturbances)g,i1.37
          Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 1.21 1.06 1.21
          Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 1.21 1.06 1.21
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.06 1.21
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc1.12 1.06 1.21
          Harvest wood products 1.12 1.21 1.37
          Technical correctionj
     Cropland managementk
          Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 1.37 1.02 1.37
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.02 1.21
           Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc1.21 1.06 1.21
     Grazingland managementk
          Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 1.37 1.02 1.37
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 1.37 1.02 1.37
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc1.21 1.06 1.21
     Revegetationk
          Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 1.37 1.02 1.37
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.37 1.02 1.37
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 1.37 1.02 1.37
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.21 1.02 1.21
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc1.21 1.06 1.21
     Wetland drainage and rewettingk
          Carbon stock change in above-ground biomass 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Carbon stock change in below-ground biomass 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Carbon stock change in litter 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Carbon stock change in dead wood 1.37 1.06 1.37
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: mineral soils 1.37 1.37 1.37 1.06 1.37 1.37 1.37
          Net Carbon stock change in soils: organic soilsc1.37 1.37 NA 1.06 1.37 1.37
     Harvest wood products
          From afforestation/reforestation 1.12 1.21 1.37
          From deforestation 1.12 1.21 1.37
          From forest management 1.12 1.21 1.37
Cross-cutting categories
     Direct and indirect N2O emissions from N fertilization 1.37 1.06 1.37
     CH4 and N2O emissions from drained and rewetted organic soilsl
          Drained organic soilsl1.37 1.37 1.37 1.06 1.37 1.37 1.37
          Rewetted organic soilsl1.37 1.37 NA 1.06 1.37 1.37
     N2O emissions from N mineralization/immobilization due to 
carbon loss/gain associated with land-use conversions and 
management change in mineral soils1.37 1.06 1.37
     Greenhouse gas emissions from biomass burning (CO2, CH4, N2O)1.21 1.21 1.21 1.12 1.37 1.37 1.37Activity 
dataEmission estimates Emission factorsFCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
56  a   Net emissions and removals include net increases and net decreases in carbon stocks in individual carbon pools (in a year 
during the commitment period and in the base year, respectively).  
b   For the base year, conservativeness factors given in this table apply to cropland mana gement, grazing land management, 
wetland drainage and rewetting, and revegetation under Article 3, paragraph 4, of the Kyoto Protocol.  
c   In cases where adjustments are calculated for other variables related to this category in common reporting format (CRF) 
table 4(KP -I)A.1.1, the conservativeness factor for the specific pool should be applied. This applies, in particular, to the areas 
subject to natural disturbances in the year that it was first reported: background levels, margins, the emissions in the inve ntory 
that can be excluded and subsequent removals in the inventory year. For salvage logging the conservativeness factors for harv est 
wood products should apply.  
d   The same conservativeness factors apply for deforested land previously reported under afforest ation/reforestation and 
forest management and subject to natural disturbances.  
e   In case s where adjustments are calculated for other variables related to this category in CRF table 4(KP -I)A.2, the 
conservativeness factor for the specific pool should be appli ed. This applies, in particular, to the areas subject to natural 
disturbances in the year that it was first reported: background levels, margins, the emissions in the inventory that can be 
excluded, and subsequent removals in the inventory year. For salvag e logging the conservativeness factors for harvest wood 
products should apply.  
f   In accordance with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 2013 Supplement to the 2006 IPCC 
Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories: Wetlands (chapter 2) , the uncertainty for drained organic soils is 20  per 
cent, and conservativeness factors are 0.94/1.06. The uncertainty for carbon dioxide ( CO 2) emissions is higher than 150  per cent 
for drained and rewetted inland organic soils (conservativeness factors o f 0.73/1.37) as presented in this table under “emissions 
and removals from drainage and rewetting”.  
g   In cases where adjustments are calculated for other variables related to this category in CRF table 4(KP -I)B.1, the 
conservativeness factor for the specific  pool should be applied.  
h   For all these cases, assume the uncertainties for the specific pool that are being adjusted.  
i   The conservativeness factors for deforestation were assumed for this activity. In cases where adjustments are calculated for 
other variabl es related to this category in CRF table 4(KP -I)B.1, the conservativeness factor for the specific pool should be 
applied.  
j   In case that adjustments are calculated for the technical correction, the conservativeness factor for the specific pool shoul d 
be appl ied. 
k   The uncertainty for activity data for the base year is 50  per cent, and the conservativeness factors are 0.89/1.12.  
l   Information on CO 2 is also included here, although emissions/removals may be reported in the land use remaining in the 
same category an d land converted to a new land -use category.  
8th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 57 Decision 5/CMP.11  
  Training programme for members of expert review teams 
participating in annual reviews under Article 8 of the Kyoto 
Protocol  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Having considered  decisions 22/CMP.1, 24/CMP.1, 8/CMP.5, 3/CMP.11 and 
4/CMP.11,  
 Recognizing  the importance of the training programme for members of expert 
review teams participating in annual reviews under Article 8 of the Kyoto Protocol, which 
builds on the training pro gramme for greenhouse gas inventory review experts under the 
Convention,  
1. Requests  the secretariat to update and implement the courses on national systems, 
application of adjustments, modalities for the accounting of assigned amounts under 
Article  7, paragr aph 4, of the Kyoto Protocol, review of national registries and information 
on assigned amounts, and review of activities under Article 3, paragraphs 3 and 4, of the 
Kyoto Protocol included in the training programme for members of expert review teams 
participating in annual reviews under Article 8 of the Kyoto Protocol, as outlined in the 
annex, to reflect any changes arising from the implementation of decisions 2/CMP.7 to 
4/CMP.7 and 1/CMP.8 and any other relevant decisions of the Conference of the Parties  
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol , including the consideration of 
requirements for Parties included in Annex I  without a quantified emission limitation and 
reduction commitment for the second commitment period under the Kyoto Pro tocol, and to 
implement the updated training programme as soon as possible, subject to the availability 
of financial resources, ensuring that the courses incorporate the rules and modalities 
applicable to the second commitment period under the Kyoto Protoc ol; 
2. Also requests  the secretariat to develop and implement the courses referred to in 
paragraph 1 above, if possible  in time for the first inventory review of the second 
commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol, emphasizing the priority for the developme nt 
of the course related to review of activities under Article 3, paragraphs 3 and 4, of the 
Kyoto Protocol;  
3. Further requests  the secretariat to continue the current practice of including, in its 
annual report on the technical review of greenhouse gas inve ntories reported by Parties 
included in Annex I  that are also Parties  to the Kyoto Protocol to the Subsidiary Body for 
Scientific and Technological Advice, information on the updated training programme, in 
particular information on examination procedures a nd the selection of trainees and 
instructors, in order for Parties to assess the effectiveness of the programme;  
4. Encourages  Parties included in Annex I to the Convention that are also Parties to the 
Kyoto  Protocol that are in a position to do so to provide  financial support for the 
implementation of the training programme referred to in paragraph 1 above;  
5. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraph 1 above;  
6. Requests that t he actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
58  Annex  
Training programme for members of expert review teams participating 
in annual reviews under Article 8 of the Kyoto Protocol  
I. Details of the training programme  
1. The courses of the training programme are intended to train members of expert 
review teams (ERTs) for the review of information submitted under Article 7 of the Kyoto 
Protocol. All training courses will be available online . For trainees without easy access to 
the Internet, courses will be distributed through electronic means; for courses that are 
facilitated by an instructor, trainees will communicate with the instructor by electronic 
means. At the request of a Party, the c ourses will also be made available for others 
interested in the review process, provided that this does not require additional resources. 
All courses will be available upon request to trainees year -round without facilitation by 
instructors.  
2. All training co urses will include an examination. Examination procedures will be 
standardized, objective and transparent. Examinations will take place online.  
3. New greenhouse gas (GHG)  inventory review experts  who successfully complete 
the relevant requirements  of the tra ining programme will be invited to participate in a 
centralized or in -country review, working alongside experienced GHG  inventory review 
experts.  
4. Experts who do not pass an examination for a course at the first attempt may retake 
the examination one additi onal time, provided that the expert has fulfilled all of the tasks 
assigned during the course in a timely manner and that the retake does not incur additional 
costs for the secretariat.  
5. Experts with relevant expertise will be invited to act as instructors for courses of the 
training programme, ensuring that their skills cover the subjects addressed in each course. 
They will provide advice and support by e -mail or other electronic means. The secretariat 
will seek to achieve a geographical balance among the i nstructors participating in the 
training programme.  
II. Courses of the training programme  
A. National systems  
Description:  This course covers guidelines for the review  of national systems under Article 
5, paragraph  1, of the Kyoto Protocol and related parts of gu idelines under Articles 7 and 8 
of the Kyoto Protocol.  
Preparation:  2016.  
Implementation:  2016 –2022.  
Target audience:  Lead reviewers, generalists and GHG  inventory review experts who have 
successfully completed the basic course for the technical review of GHG inventories of 
Parties included in Annex I to the Convention (Annex I Parties).  
Type of course:  E-learning, without instructor.  
Examination requirements and format:  New GHG  inventory  review experts  and new 
lead reviewers must pass the examination befor e participating in ERTs. Online 
examination.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
 59 B. Application of adjustments  
Description:  This course covers decisions of the Conference of  the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and technical guidance on methodologies for 
adjus tments under Article 5, paragraph 2, of the Kyoto Protocol and related parts of 
guidelines under Articles 7 and 8 of the Kyoto Protocol.  
Preparation:  2016.  
Implementation:  2016 –2022.  
Target audience:  Lead reviewers, experienced GHG  inventory  review experts and GHG  
inventory review experts  who have successfully completed the basic course for the 
technical review of GHG inventories  of Annex I Parties.  
Type of course:  E-learning, facilitated by an instructor.  
Examination requirements and format:  New GHG  inventory review experts  and new 
lead reviewers must pass the examination before participating in ERTs. Online 
examination.  
C. Modalities for the accounting of assigned amounts under Article 7, 
paragraph 4  
Description:  This course provides guidance f or members  of ERTs reviewing  information 
provided in the initial report for the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol, the 
calculation of the assigned amount pursuant to Article 3, paragraphs 7 bis, 7 ter, 8 and 8 bis 
of the Kyoto Protocol, the co mmitment period reserve, and the national registries for 
conformity with the modalities for the accounting of assigned amounts under Article 7, 
paragraph 4.  
Preparation:  2016.  
Implementation:  2016 –2022.  
Target audience:  Members of ERTs  reviewing national r egistries and assigned amount 
information, generalists and lead reviewers.   
Type of course:  E-learning, without instructor.  
Examination requirements and format:  Examination required for new members of 
ERTs. Online examination.  
D. Review of national registries  and information on assigned amounts  
Description:  This course provides guidance for members  of ERTs  reviewing annual 
information on assigned amounts pursuant to Article 3, paragraphs 7 bis, 7 ter, 8 and 8 bis, 
of the Kyoto Protocol, information on Kyoto Protocol units and t he standard electronic 
format, for conformity with Article 7, paragraph 4, of the Kyoto Protocol . In addition, the 
course provides guidance on the review of national registries, including of changes in 
national registries reported by Pa rties in accordance with decisions 15/CMP.1, 1/CMP.8 
and 4/CMP.11 and of conformity with the technical standards for data exchange between 
registry systems.  
Preparation:  2016.  
Implementation:  2016 –2022.  
Target audience:  Members of ERTs  reviewing national r egistries and assigned amount 
information, generalists and lead reviewers.  
Type of course:  E-learning, facilitated by an instructor, subject to the availability of 
resources.  
Examination requirements and format:  New generalists, new lead reviewers and any 
new members of ERTs  who will review national registries and annual information on FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.1  
60  assigned amounts must pass the examination before participating in ERTs. Online 
examination.  
E. Review of activities under Article 3, paragraphs 3 and 4, of the Kyoto 
Protocol  
Description:  This course provides guidance for members  of ERTs  reviewing  information 
provided during the commitment period for land use, land -use change and forestry 
(LULUCF) activities under Article 3, paragraphs 3 and 4, of the Kyoto Protocol for 
conformi ty with the requirements of decisions 2/CMP.7, 2/CMP.8 and 6/CMP.9, including 
procedures for adjustments under Article 5, paragraph 2, of the Kyoto Protocol.  
Preparation:  2016.  
Implementation:  2016 –2022.  
Target audience:  LULUCF inventory review experts and  lead reviewers.  
Type of course:  E-learning, facilitated by an instructor, subject to the availability of 
resources.  
Examination requirements and format:  All LULUCF inventory review experts and new 
lead reviewers must pass the examination before participat ing in ERTs. Online 
examination.  
8th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015  
     
GE.16 -01212(E)  
*1601212*   
 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting  
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  
  Report of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol on its eleventh 
session, held in Paris from 30 November to 13 December 2015  
Addendum  
  Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at 
its eleventh session  
Contents  
  Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  
Decision   Page 
  6/CMP.11  Guidance relating to the clean development mechanism  ................................ ...........   2 
  7/CMP.11  Guidance on the implementation of Article 6 of the Kyoto Protocol  ........................   7 
  8/CMP.11  Methodology for the collection of international transaction log fees in the  
biennium 2016 –2017  ................................ ................................ ................................ .  9 
  9/CMP.11  Capacity -building under the Kyoto Protocol  ................................ .............................   13 
  10/CMP.11  Technical review in 2016 of greenhouse gas inventories and initial reports for  
the second commitment period from Parties included in Annex I to the Convention  
that are also Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  ................................ ................................ .  14 
  11/CMP.11  Admini strative, financial and institutional matters  ................................ ....................   16 
  12/CMP.11  Programme budget for the biennium 2016 –2017  ................................ ......................   18 
Resolution  
  1/CMP.11  Expression of gratitude to the Government  of the French Republic  and the  
people of the city of Paris  ................................ ................................ ..........................   24 United Nations  FCCC /KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
 
 
  
Distr.: General  
29 January 2016  
 
Original: English  
FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
2  Decision 6/CMP.11  
  Guidance relating to the clean development mechanism  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol ,  
Recalling the provisions of Articles 3 and 12 of the Kyoto Protocol and decision 
1/CMP.6,  
Cognizant of decision 3/CMP.1 and subsequent guidance provided by the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol 
relating to the cle an development mechanism,  
I. General  
1. Welcomes the report for 2014 –2015 of the Executive Board of the clean 
development mechanism (hereinafter referred to as the Executive Board);1 
2. Commends  the Executive Board for the substantial work undertaken over the past 
year;  
3. Expresses  satisfaction  with the progress of the clean development mechanism of the 
Kyoto Protocol, which to date has been responsible for:2 
(a) Over 7,600 project activities being reg istered in over 95 countries;  
(b) Over 1,900 component project activities being included in over 280 
programmes of activities registered in over 75 countries;  
(c) Over 1.6 billion certified emission reductions being issued and over USD 300 
billion being invested ; 
(d) Over 5.7 million certified emission reductions voluntarily cancelled;  
(e) Over 32 million certified emission reductions being transferred through the 
share of proceeds to the Adaptation Fund;  
(f) Over USD 190 million of revenue for the Adaptation Fund from the sale of 
certified emission reductions;  
(g) Seventy -three loans under the clean development mechanism loan scheme 
being approved and over USD 6 million of total commitment;  
(h) Twenty -nine sustainable development co -benefit description reports being 
published using  the voluntary sustainable development tool;  
4. Welcomes  the launch of the online platform for voluntary cancellation of certified 
emission reductions;3 
5. Requests  the Executive Board and the secretariat to facilitate access to the section 
concerning sustainabl e development in the project and programme design documents of the 
project activities and programmes of activities on the online platform for voluntary 
cancellation of certified emission reductions referred to in paragraph 4 above;  
                                                           
 1 FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/5.  
 2 See document FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/5  and the UNFCCC CDM website at < http://cdm.unfccc.int/ >. 
 3 <https://offset.climateneutralnow.org/ >. FCCC/KP/CMP/ 2015/8/Add.2  
 3 6. Encourages  the Executive  Board to continue the simplification process of the clean 
development mechanism with the aim of further simplifying and streamlining the project 
cycle, the registration and verification process, the development and approval of 
standardized baselines, the methodological standards and procedures, and the accreditation 
procedure;  
7. Also encourages  the Executive Board to continue exploring options for using the 
clean development mechanism  as a tool for other uses and report back to the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  at its twelfth session 
(November 2016);  
8. Further encourages  the Executive Board to explore the opportunities for the 
financing of the clean development mechanism through international climate finan cing 
institutions, such as the Green Climate Fund, and report back to the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  at its twelfth session;  
9. Invites  the Executive Board, as part of the implementation of paragraph 8 above, to 
consider hosting an in -session workshop at the forty -fourth sessions of the subsidiary 
bodies (May 2016), taking into account paragraph 28 below;  
II. Accreditation  
10. Designates  as operational entities those entities that have been accredited, and 
provisionally designated, as operational entities by the Executive Board to carry out the 
sector -specific validation functions and/or sector -specific verification functions described 
in the annex;  
11. Requests  the Executive Board to analyse the need for measures to ensure the 
continued participation of designated operational entities in the clean development 
mechanism, in particular in the regions underrepresented in the clean development 
mechanism, taking into account paragraph 28 below;  
III. Baseline and monitoring m ethodologies  
12. Decides  to allow the submission of a request for the revision of a baseline and 
monitoring methodology without a draft project or programme design document in cases 
where the Executive Board considers that the assessment of such a request can be 
conducted without the project -specific information;  
13. Requests the Executive Board to implement paragraph 12 above by revising the 
relevant regulations;  
14. Encourages  the Executive Board to continue the development of digitized project 
and programme design d ocument forms for clean development mechanism project activities 
and programmes of activities;  
15. Requests  the Executive Board to develop more cost -effective and context -
appropriate approaches for monitoring, reporting and verification with a focus on project  
activities involving households and communities, addressing, inter alia:  
(a) Procedures to manage data gaps;  
(b) Regionally appropriate calibration requirements;  
(c) The use of sectoral and nationally collected data where appropriate;  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
4  16. Encourages  the Executive Board to continue its work related to the “Application of 
E-policy in investment analysis for additionality demonstration and selection of baseline 
scenario”,4 and to report back to the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the  
Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  at its twelfth session;  
17. Also encourages  the Executive Board to continue assessing methodologies in order 
to ensure environmental integrity and additionality;  
IV. Registration of project activities and programmes and 
issuance of c ertified emission reductions  
18. Requests  the Executive Board to develop stand -alone programme of activit ies 
guidance, consisting, inter alia, of a “ clean development mechanism programme of 
activities standard”, a “ clean development mechanism programme of acti vities validation 
and verification standard” and a “ clean development mechanism programme of activities 
cycle procedure”;  
19. Reiterates its request to the Executive Board, as contained in decision 4/CMP.10, to 
consider allowing, as an option, a simplified inc lusion process for activities that satisfy 
microscale thresholds and are considered automatically additional; this option shall allow 
for inclusion on the basis of a pre -approved standardized inclusion template of component 
project activities carried out d irectly by the coordinating/managing entity without prior 
validation through a designated operational entity;  
20. Requests  the Executive Board to consider developing a standardized registration 
template using objective criteria for activities that qualify as a utomatically additional;  
21. Encourages  the Executive Board to continue its efforts in communicating the 
sustainable development co -benefits of clean development mechanism project activities and 
programmes of activities to the public;  
22. Also encourages  the Execu tive Board to improve the user -friendliness of the 
existing sustainable development co -benefits tool;  
23. Requests  designated operational entit ies to confirm that request s for issuance of 
emission reductions are submitted only to the Executive Board;  
24. Also requests  the Executive Board to examine how the information specified in 
paragraph 12 of appendix D to decision 3/CMP.1 can be best made publicly available, and 
the implications thereof, and report back on this matter to the Conference of the Parties 
servi ng as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  at its twelfth session;  
V. Regional and subregional distribution  
25. Welcomes  the progress made in establishing and operating the regional collaboration 
centres to promote the clean development mechanism in r egions underrepresented in the 
mechanism and to support stakeholders at the regional and national levels;  
26. Requests  the Executive Board to expand, taking into account paragraph 28 below, 
the scope and scale of regional collaboration centres’  assistance acti vities in developing 
countries by exploring the emerging technical and methodological areas in the context of 
the clean development mechanism where specific assistance is identified as needed by the 
countries underrepresented in the mechanism;  
                                                           
 4 See annex 13 to the annotated agenda of the 79th meeting of the Executive Board . Available at 
<http://cdm.unfccc.int/EB/index.html >. FCCC/KP/CMP/ 2015/8/Add.2  
 5 VI. Resources fo r work on the clean development mechanism  
27. Expresses  its appreciation to the secretariat for having ensured the prudent 
management of its resources and deep gratitude to the staff that have left the secretariat for 
their enormous contribution to the clean d evelopment mechanism;  
28. Requests the Executive Board to ensure the transparent and prudent management of 
the resources of the clean development mechanism, including the spending for those 
serving on the Executive Board . 
 FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
6  Annex  
[English only]  
Designation of operational entities by the Conference of the Parties serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at its eleventh session  
Name of entitya Designated sectoral scopes  
(validation and verification)  
Carbon Check (India) Private Ltd. (Carbon Check)   
(formerly Carbon Check (Pty) Ltd.)b 1–5, 8–10, 13 and 14  
China Building Material Test  and Certification Group Co. Ltd. (CTC)c 1–4, 6, 9, 10 and 13  
China Certification Center Inc. (CCCI)c 1–15 
China Classification Society Certification Company (CCSC)d 1–10 and 13  
GHD Limited (GHD) (formerly Conestoga Rovers & Associates Limited)b 1, 4, 5, 8–10, 12 and 13  
Hong Kong Quality Assurance Agency (HKQAA)d 1 
KBS Certification Services Pvt. Ltd. (KBS)d 1, 3–5, 7, 9, 10, 12, 13 and 15  
a   This table does not include entities for which accreditation has been withdrawn for some or all sectoral scopes.  
b   Transfer of accreditation from another legal entity.  
c   Initial accreditation granted for five years.  
d   Reaccreditation granted for five years.  
8th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
 7 Decision 7/CMP.11  
Guidance on the implementation of Article 6 of the 
Kyoto  Protocol   
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Recalling the provisions of Articl es 3 and 6 of the Kyoto Protocol and decision 
1/CMP.6,  
Cognizant of decision 9/CMP.1 and subsequent guidance provided by the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol 
relating to joint implementation,  
1. Takes note  of the achievements of joint implementation in the period 2006 –2015, 
accounting for 548 Track 1 projects,1 52 Track 2 projects2 and over 871 million emission 
reduction units issued for emission reductions;  
2. Takes  note with appreciation  of the report of the Joint Implementation Supervisory 
Committee for 2014 –20153 and the status of work undertaken during its current term, in 
particular:  
(a) The elaboration of further recommendations on the review of the joint 
implementation guidelines submit ted to the Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its 
forty -second session;4  
(b) The decision  of the Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee  to allow 
designated operational entities accredited under the accreditation rules of the clean 
development mechanism  to act voluntarily as accredited independent entities under joint 
implementation while taking measures to safeguard environmental integrity;5  
3. Reiterates  its concern regarding the difficult market situation currently faced by 
participants in joint impleme ntation, with projects declining to a point where the 
mechanism is practically non -existent;  
4. Requests the Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee to submit 
recommendations for consideration by the Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its forty -
fourth s ession (May 2016) on actions that would be necessary to implement the draft joint 
implementation modalities and procedures,6 including changes to:  
(a) The rules of procedure of the Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee 
as adopted by decision 3/CMP.5;  
(b) Provisions under other decisions of the Conference of the Parties serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol relating to joint implementation;  
                                                           
 1 Decision 9/CMP.1, annex, paragraph 23.  
 2 The verification procedure under the Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee, defined in 
decision 9/CMP.1, annex, paragraphs 30 –45. 
 3 FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/4.  
 4 FCCC/SBI/2015/5 . 
 5 Report on the 37th meeting of the Joint Im plementation Supervisory Committee, paragraph 15. 
Available at < http://ji.unfccc.int/Sup_Committee/Meetings/index.html >. 
 6 FCCC/SBI/2015/L.30.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
8  5. Also requests the Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee to submit 
recommendations for consider ation by the Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its forty -
fourth session in the context of the review of the joint implementation guidelines, inter alia, 
on options to address:  
(a) Concerns raised by stakeholders;  
(b) Validation by an accredited independent ent ity of post -registration changes;  
6. Invites  Parties and admitted observer organizations to submit, by  31 March 2016, 
their views on experiences and lessons learned from joint implementation for the possible 
design of mitigation mechanisms and on links and interactions with other tools;7 
7. Requests  the Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee to reflect on synergies 
between joint implementation and other mitigation mechanisms to ensure the cost -efficient 
use of resources, the coherence of mitigation instrume nts and the avoidance of double 
counting, in particular regarding infrastructure and technical arrangements, tools, 
governance structures and processes;  
8. Also requests  the Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee to prepare an 
analysis of the experiences and lessons learned referred to in paragraph 6 above , taking into 
account the submissions referred to in the same paragraph and any other relevant materials, 
and to forward recommendations and the reflections of the Joint Implementation 
Supervisory Committ ee mentioned in paragraph 7 above for consideration by the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at its 
twelfth session (November 2016);  
9. Commends the Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee and the secreta riat for 
their prudent management of resources;  
10. Reiterates its request to the Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee to ensure 
sufficient infrastructure and capacity for the mechanism’s use by Parties for as long as 
needed, and to keep the joint implem entation management plan under review, making 
necessary adjustments to ensure the efficient, cost -effective and transparent functioning of 
joint implementation.  
8th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015
                                                           
 7 Parties should submit their views via the submissions portal at < http://www.unfccc.int/5900 >. 
Admitted observer organizations should e -mail their submissions to < secretariat@unfccc.int >. FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
 9 Decision 8/CMP.11  
  Methodology for the collection of international transaction 
log fees in the biennium 2016 –2017  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol ,  
 Recalling  Article 13, paragraph 5, of the Kyoto Protocol,  
 Also recalling decisions 11/CMP.3, 10/CMP.5, 9/CMP.6 and 8/CMP.8,  
 Recognizing  the importance of sufficient and stable funding for the international 
transaction log ,  
1. Adopts the scale of fees for the international transaction log for the biennium 2016 –
2017 contained in the annex;  
2. Decides that fees for the international transaction log paid by a Party for the 
biennium 2016 –2017 shall be calculated by multiplying  the scale of fees for that Party, as 
contained in the annex, by the budget for the international transaction log for the biennium 
2016 –2017, with the fees for the first year of the biennium being equal to the fees for the 
second year of the biennium;  
3. Requests  the Executive Secretary to notify Parties connected to the international 
transaction log in the biennium 2016 –2017 of the annual fees, calculated in accordance 
with paragraph 2 above, as early as possible and at least four months in advance of the 
relevant calendar year, where possible;  
4. Decides that, if a Party connects to the international transaction log for the first time 
or reconnects to it following disconnection during the biennium 2016 –2017, the scale of 
fees for that Party shall be that c ontained in the annex, or, for Parties not listed in the table 
contained in the annex, shall be made equal to 130 per cent of their Kyoto Protocol adjusted 
scale for the relevant biennium;  
5. Also decides  that fees paid by a Party that connects to the inte rnational transaction 
log for the first time shall be deducted from the resource requirement for activities relating 
to the international transaction log in the next biennium;  
6. Further decides  that fees paid by a Party that connects to the international 
transaction log for the first time or, following disconnection, reconnects to it during the 
biennium 2016 –2017, shall be proportioned for the period between the date of connection 
or reconnection of its registry and the end of the biennium, except for the period for which 
the fees were already paid;  
7. Decides  that, where a Party disconnects during the biennium 2016 –2017, the Party 
shall cover the fees for the full year in which the disconnection took place, and that, if the 
disconnection takes place in the  first year of the biennium and the Party does not reconnect 
in the second year of the biennium, fees for the second year of the biennium shall not apply;  
8. Authorizes  the international transaction log administrator to disconnect the registry 
of a Party f rom the international transaction log in the event of the non -payment of its fees 
by that Party, provided that such disconnection shall not be effected earlier than four 
months after the beginning of the relevant calendar year, at least two reminders have 
already been given to the Party and consultations have taken place with the Party concerned 
prior to the final reminder;  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
10  9. Also authorizes  the Executive Secretary to draw up funds from unspent balances 
(carry -over) of the Trust Fund for the International Transaction Log from previous financial 
periods to cover the potential shortfall in fees due to the disconnection of Parties during the 
biennium 2016 –2017;  
10. Requests the international transaction log administrator to provide, in its annual 
reports for 2 016 and 2017, information on transactions of Kyoto Protocol units;  
11. Also requests  the international transaction log administrator to publish, in its annual 
reports, a table listing the scale and the level of fees and the status of payments for all 
Parti es connected to the international transaction log.  
 FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
 11 Annex  
[English only]  
Scale of fees for the international transaction log for the biennium 
2016–2017  
Party  Scale of fees  
(per cent)  
Australia  2.841  
Austria  1.588  
Belarusa 0.073  
Belgium  1.973  
Bulgaria  0.036  
Croatia  0.079  
Cyprusa 0.061  
Czech Republic  0.503  
Denmark  1.323  
Estonia  0.028  
European Union  2.685  
Finland  1.009  
France  10.667  
Germany  15.350  
Greece  1.065  
Hungary  0.437  
Iceland  0.737  
Ireland  0.797  
Italy 9.090  
Japan  14.939  
Kazakhstana 0.157  
Latvia  0.032  
Liechtenstein  0.188  
Lithuania  0.055  
Luxembourg  0.153  
Maltaa 0.021  
Monaco  0.181  
Netherlands  3.352  
New Zealand  0.961  
Norway  2.319  
Poland  0.896  
Portugal  0.943  
Romania  0.125  
Russian Federation  2.743  
Slovakia  0.113  
Slovenia  0.171  
Spain  5.311  
Sweden  1.917  
Switzerland  2.760  
Ukraine  0.745  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
12  Party  Scale of fees  
(per cent)  
United Kingdom of Great Britain  
and Northern Ireland  11.888  
Subtotal for Parties connected to the international transaction 
log 100.000  
Subtotal for Parties not connected to the international 
transaction log  0.312  
Total  100.312  
a   Parties currently not connected to the international transaction log.  
8th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
 13 Decision 9/CMP.11  
  Capacity -building under the Kyoto Protocol  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
 Recalling  decisions 29/CMP .1, 6/CMP.2, 6/CMP.4, 15/CMP.7, 10/CMP.8, 2/CP.7  
and 2/CP.17 , 
1. Requests the Subsidiary  Body for Implementation to conduct the third 
comprehensive review of the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in 
developing countries,  established under decision 2/CP.7  and reaffirmed under decision 
29/CMP.1,  at its forty -fourth  session (May 2016), on the basis of the terms of reference 
contained in the annex to decision 14/CP.21, with a view to recommending a draft decision 
for consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties  serving as the meeting of 
the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  at its twelfth session (November 2016);  
2. Decides  that the 5th meeting of the Durban Forum, to be held during the forty -fourth 
session of the Subsidiary Bod y for Implementation, will explore potential ways for 
enhancing capacity -building by sharing information and varied experiences related to the 
Kyoto Protocol;  
3. Invites  Parties to submit via the submissions  portal ,1 by 9 March 2016, as part of 
their annual s ubmissions pursuant to decision 6/CMP.2 , suggestions for additional potential 
topics related to the Kyoto Protocol for the 5th meeting of the Durban Forum.  
8th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015
                                                           
 1  <http://www.unfccc.int/5900 >. FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
14  Decision 10/CMP.11  
  Technical review in 2016 of greenhouse gas inventories and 
initial reports for the second commitment period from 
Parties included in Annex I to the Convention that are also 
Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Recalling  decisions 13/CMP.1, 22/CMP.1, 2/CMP.8 and 6/CMP.9,  
Emphasizing the importance of ensuring that the Conference of the Parties serving 
as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol has adequate and reliable information on 
annual greenhouse gas inventories from Parties included in Annex I to the Convention that 
are also Parties to the Kyoto Protocol (Parties included in Annex I),  
Noting  that owing to a delay in the availability of a functioning CRF Reporter and 
pending the finalization of the full set of accounting, reporting and review modalities under 
Articles 5, 7 and 8 of the Kyoto Protocol, Parties included in Annex I were unable to 
submit in 2015 some of the information required under Article 7, paragraph 1, of the Kyoto 
Protocol, or their reports to facilitate the calculation of the assigned amount for the second 
commitment period pursuant to Article 3, paragraphs 7 bis, 8 and 8 bis , of the Kyoto 
Protocol, and to demonstrate capacity to account for emissions and the assigned amount ,1  
Also noting the revised modalities for accounting, reporting and review under 
Articles 5, 7 and 8 of the Kyoto Protocol for the purposes of the impleme ntation of the 
second commitment period contained in decisions 3/CMP.112 and 4/CMP.11 ,3  
Expressing  the concern that additional work will be needed to ensure that all 2015 
greenhouse gas inventories undergo the review process stipulated in decision 13/CP.2 0 and 
other relevant decisions, such as those relating to the review processes under the Kyoto 
Protocol, and that meeting the mandated timelines of the review process may be 
challenging because of this additional work,  
1. Requests the secretariat to organize  the review of the 2015 and 2016 greenhouse gas 
inventory submissions from Parties included in Annex I to the Convention that are also 
Parties to the Kyoto Protocol (Parties included in Annex I) , including the review of the 
supplementary information submit ted under Article 7, paragraph 1, of the Kyoto Protocol, 
in conjunction with each other and with the review of those inventory submissions under 
the Convention;  
2. Also requests  the secretariat to organize, in accordance with decisions 2/CMP.8 and 
4/CMP.11 ,3 the review of the reports to facilitate the calculation of the assigned amount for 
                                                           
 1  Ukraine was the only Party in 2015 that submitted its initial report for the second commitment period 
(on 14 August 201 5). 
 2 Decision  3/CMP.11“Implications of the implementation of decisions 2/CMP.7 to 4/CMP.7 and 
1/CMP.8 on the previous decisions on methodological issues related to the Kyoto Protocol, including 
those relating to Articles 5, 7 and 8 of the Kyoto Protocol, part I: implic ations related to accounting 
and reporting and other related issues”.  
 3 Decision 4/CMP.11  “Implications of the implementation of decisions 2/CMP.7 to 4/CMP.7 and 
1/CMP.8 on the previous decisions on methodological issues related to the Kyoto Protocol incl uding 
those relating to Articles 5, 7 and 8 of the Kyoto Protocol, part II: implications related to review and 
adjustments and other related issues”.    FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
 15 the second commitment period in conjunction with the reviews referred to in paragraph 1 
above, striving to complete each review no later than one year after the submission d ate of 
the report;  
3. Further requests the secretariat to continue to make improvements to the CRF 
Reporter functionality, prioritizing the resolution of outstanding issues related to 
transparency and accuracy, noting that the CRF Reporter is not yet fully fu nctioning;  
4. Invites  Parties included in Annex I that have not yet submitted their 2015 
greenhouse gas inventories and supplementary information required under Article 7, 
paragraph 1, of the Kyoto Protocol to do so as soon as possible;  
5. Takes note  of the esti mated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat pursuant to the provisions contained in paragraphs 1 and 2 above;  
6. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the avail ability of financial resources.  
8th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
16  Decision 11/CMP.11  
  Administrative, financial and institutional matters  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol ,  
Recalling Article 13, paragraph 5, of the Kyoto Protocol,  
Also recalling decision 27/CP.19, in particular paragraph 11,  
Further recalling paragraph 11 of the financial procedures of the Conference of the 
Parties, which also applies to the Kyoto Protocol,1 
Taking note of decision 21/CP.21,  
Having considered the information contained in the documents prepared by the 
secretariat on administrat ive, financial and institutional matters,2 
I. Budget performance for the biennium 2014 –2015  
1. Takes note  of the information contained in the report on budget performance for the 
period 1 January 2014 to 30 June 20153 and the status of contributions to the trust  funds 
administered by the secretariat as at 15 November 2015;4 
2. Welcomes the Executive Secretary’s efforts to address budgetary limits by 
enhancing effectiveness and efficiency, including reducing staffing costs through post 
management;  
3. Expresses  appreciat ion to Parties that have made contributions to the core budget 
and the international transaction log5 in a timely manner;  
4. Urges  Parties that have not made contributions to the core budget and the 
international transaction log6 in full for the current and/ or previous bienniums to do so 
without delay ; 
5. Calls upon  Parties to make their contributions to the core budget and the 
international transaction log for the biennium 2016 –2017 in a timely manner, bearing in 
mind that contributions are due on 1 January of each year in accordance with the financial 
procedures of  the Conference of the Parties;  
6. Expresses appreciation  for the contributions received from Parties to the Trust Fund 
for Participation in the UNFCCC Process and to the Trust Fund for Supplementary 
Activities;  
7. Urges  Parties to contribute further to the Trust Fund for Participation in the 
UNFCCC Process, in order to ensure the widest possible participation in the negotiations in 
2016, and to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities;  
                                                           
 1 Decision 15/CP.1, annex I, as revised by decision 23/CP.20 . 
 2 FCCC/SBI/2015/13, FCCC/SBI/2015/INF.10  and FCCC/SBI/2015/INF.17 . 
 3 FCCC/SBI/2015/13.  
 4 FCCC/SBI/2015/INF.17.  
 5 FCCC/SBI/2015/ INF.17, table 7.  
 6 As footnote 5 above .  FCCC/KP/CMP/20 15/8/Add.2  
 17 8. Reiterates  its appreciation  to the Government of Germany for its annual voluntary 
contribution to the core budget of EUR 766,938 and its special contribution of EUR 
1,789,522 as Host Government of the secretariat;  
II. Audit report and financial statements for 2014  
9. Takes note  of the audit rep ort of the United Nations Board of Auditors,7 which 
includes recommendations and the financial statements for 2014, and the comments of the 
secretariat thereon ; 
10. Expresses its appreciation  to the United Nations for arranging the audits of the 
accounts of th e Convention and for the valuable observations and recommendations of the 
auditors;  
11. Urges the Executive Secretary to implement the recommendations of the auditors, as 
appropriate.  
8th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015  
                                                           
 7 FCCC/SBI/2015/INF.10.   FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
18  Decision 12/CMP.11  
  Programme budget for the biennium 2016 –2017  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol ,  
Recalling  Article 13, paragraph 5, of the Kyoto Protocol,  
Also recalling decision 8/CMP.11 on the methodology for the collection of 
international transaction log fees in the biennium 2016 –2017 , 
Taking note  of decision 22/CP.21, in particular paragraph 1 , 
Having considered  the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2016 –2017 
submitted by the Executive Secretary,1 
1. Endorses  decision 22/CP.21 on the programme budget for the biennium 2016 –2017 
as it applies to the Kyoto Protocol ;2 
2. Adopts  the indicativ e scale of contributions for 2016 and 2017 contained in annex I, 
covering 28.8 per cent of the indicative contributions specified in table 1 of 
decision  22/CP.21;  
3. Invites  all Parties to the Kyoto Protocol to note that contributions to the core budget 
are due on 1 January of each year in accordance with paragraph 8(b) of the financial 
procedures for the Conference of the Parties, its subsidiary bodies and the secretariat,3 and 
to pay promptly and in full for each of the years 2016 and 2017 the contributions required 
to finance the approved expenditures set out in decision 22/CP.21;  
4. Takes note  of the financing requirements for the clean development mechanism and 
joint imp lementation proposed by the Executive Board of the clean development 
mechanism and the Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee, respectively;4 
5. Approves  the budget for the international transaction log for the biennium 2016 –
2017, amounting to EUR 5,35 1,356 for the purposes specified in the proposed budget for 
the international transaction log;5 
6. Decides  to maintain the level of the working capital reserve at 8.3 per cent of the 
estimated expenditure for the Trust Fund for the International Transactio n Log;  
7. Adopts the fees for the international transaction log for the biennium 2016 –2017 as 
contained in annex II.  
 
                                                           
 1 FCCC/SBI/2015/3.  
 2 Recognizes that, in accordance with decision 13/CP.20, three operational ap proaches may be used for 
implementing the technical review of the greenhouse gas inventories of Parties included in Annex I to 
the Convention, namely desk reviews, centralized reviews and in -country reviews, assuming available 
resources, and recognizes tha t the secretariat may implement such reviews according to decision 
13/CP.20 in 2016 –2017, taking into account the programme budget and supplementary resources 
provided for under this decision.  
 3 Decision 15/CP.1, annex I, as revised by decision 23/CP.20.  
 4 FCCC/SBI/2015/3/Add.1.  
 5 FCCC/SBI/2015/3/Add.3.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
 19 Annex I  
[English only]  
Indicative scale of contributions from Parties to the Kyoto Protocol for 
the biennium 2016 –2017  
Party  United Nations scale of 
assessments for 2015  Kyoto Protocol adjusted 
scale for 2016  Kyoto Protocol adjusted 
scale for 2017  
Afghanistan  0.005  0.007  0.007  
Albania  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Algeria  0.137  0.178  0.178  
Angola  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Antigua and Barbuda  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Argentina  0.432  0.562  0.562  
Armenia  0.007  0.009  0.009  
Australia  2.074  2.696  2.696  
Austria  0.798  1.037  1.037  
Azerbaijan  0.040  0.052  0.052  
Bahamas  0.017  0.022  0.022  
Bahrain  0.039  0.051  0.051  
Bangladesh  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Barbados  0.008  0.010  0.010  
Belarus  0.056  0.073  0.073  
Belgium  0.998  1.297  1.297  
Belize  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Benin  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Bhutan  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Bolivia (Plurinational State of)  0.009  0.012  0.012  
Bosnia and Herzegovina  0.017  0.022  0.022  
Botswana  0.017  0.022  0.022  
Brazil  2.934  3.814  3.814  
Brunei Darussalam  0.026  0.034  0.034  
Bulgaria  0.047  0.061  0.061  
Burkina Faso  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Burundi  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Cabo Verde  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Cambodia  0.004  0.005  0.005  
Cameroon  0.012  0.016  0.016  
Central African Republic  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Chad  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Chile  0.334  0.434  0.434  
China  5.148  6.693  6.693  
Colombia  0.259  0.337  0.337  
Comoros  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Congo  0.005  0.007  0.007  
Cook Islands  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Costa Rica  0.038  0.049  0.049  
Côte d’Ivoire  0.011  0.014  0.014  
Croatia  0.126  0.164  0.164  
Cuba  0.069  0.090  0.090  
Cyprus  0.047  0.061  0.061  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
20  Party  United Nations scale of 
assessments for 2015  Kyoto Protocol adjusted 
scale for 2016  Kyoto Protocol adjusted 
scale for 2017  
Czech Republic  0.386  0.502  0.502  
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea  0.006  0.008  0.008  
Democratic Republic of the Congo  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Denmark  0.675  0.878  0.878  
Djibouti  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Dominica  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Dominican Republic  0.045  0.059  0.059  
Ecuador  0.044  0.057  0.057  
Egypt  0.134  0.174  0.174  
El Salvador  0.016  0.021  0.021  
Equatorial Guinea  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Eritrea  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Estonia  0.040  0.052  0.052  
Ethiopia  0.010  0.013  0.013  
European Union  2.500  2.500  2.500  
Fiji 0.003  0.004  0.004  
Finland  0.519  0.675  0.675  
France  5.593  7.271  7.271  
Gabon  0.020  0.026  0.026  
Gambia  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Georgia  0.007  0.009  0.009  
Germany  7.141  9.284  9.284  
Ghana  0.014  0.018  0.018  
Greece  0.638  0.829  0.829  
Grenada  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Guatemala  0.027  0.035  0.035  
Guinea  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Guinea -Bissau  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Guyana  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Haiti  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Honduras  0.008  0.010  0.010  
Hungary  0.266  0.346  0.346  
Iceland  0.027  0.035  0.035  
India  0.666  0.866  0.866  
Indonesia  0.346  0.450  0.450  
Iran (Islamic Republic of )  0.356  0.463  0.463  
Iraq 0.068  0.088  0.088  
Ireland  0.418  0.543  0.543  
Israel  0.396  0.515  0.515  
Italy 4.448  5.783  5.783  
Jamaica  0.011  0.014  0.014  
Japan  10.833  14.083  14.083  
Jordan  0.022  0.029  0.029  
Kazakhstan  0.121  0.157  0.157  
Kenya  0.013  0.017  0.017  
Kiribati  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Kuwait  0.273  0.355  0.355  
Kyrgyzstan  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Lao People’s Democratic Republic  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Latvia  0.047  0.061  0.061  
Lebanon  0.042  0.055  0.055  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
 21 Party  United Nations scale of 
assessments for 2015  Kyoto Protocol adjusted 
scale for 2016  Kyoto Protocol adjusted 
scale for 2017  
Lesotho  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Liberia  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Libya  0.142  0.185  0.185  
Liechtenstein  0.009  0.012  0.012  
Lithuania  0.073  0.095  0.095  
Luxembourg  0.081  0.105  0.105  
Madagascar  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Malawi  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Malaysia  0.281  0.365  0.365  
Maldives  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Mali  0.004  0.005  0.005  
Malta  0.016  0.021  0.021  
Marshall Islands  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Mauritania  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Mauritius  0.013  0.017  0.017  
Mexico  1.842  2.395  2.395  
Micronesia (Federated States of)  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Monaco  0.012  0.016  0.016  
Mongolia  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Montenegro  0.005  0.007  0.007  
Morocco  0.062  0.081  0.081  
Mozambique  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Myanmar  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Namibia  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Nauru  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Nepal  0.006  0.008  0.008  
Netherlands  1.654  2.150  2.150  
New Zealand  0.253  0.329  0.329  
Nicaragua  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Niger  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Nigeria  0.090  0.117  0.117  
Niue  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Norway  0.851  1.106  1.106  
Oman  0.102  0.133  0.133  
Pakistan  0.085  0.111  0.111  
Palau  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Panama  0.026  0.034  0.034  
Papua New Guinea  0.004  0.005  0.005  
Paraguay  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Peru 0.117  0.152  0.152  
Philippines  0.154  0.200  0.200  
Poland  0.921  1.197  1.197  
Portugal  0.474  0.616  0.616  
Qatar  0.209  0.272  0.272  
Republic of Korea  1.994  2.592  2.592  
Republic of Moldova  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Romania  0.226  0.294  0.294  
Russian Federation  2.438  3.170  3.170  
Rwanda  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Saint Kitts and Nevis  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Saint Lucia  0.001  0.001  0.001  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
22  Party  United Nations scale of 
assessments for 2015  Kyoto Protocol adjusted 
scale for 2016  Kyoto Protocol adjusted 
scale for 2017  
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Samoa  0.001  0.001  0.001  
San Marino  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Sao Tome and Principe  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Saudi Arabia  0.864  1.123  1.123  
Senegal  0.006  0.008  0.008  
Serbia  0.040  0.052  0.052  
Seychelles  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Sierra Leone  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Singapore  0.384  0.499  0.499  
Slovakia  0.171  0.222  0.222  
Slovenia  0.100  0.130  0.130  
Solomon Islands  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Somalia  0.001  0.001  0.001  
South Africa  0.372  0.484  0.484  
Spain  2.973  3.865  3.865  
Sri Lanka  0.025  0.033  0.033  
Sudan  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Suriname  0.004  0.005  0.005  
Swaziland  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Sweden  0.960  1.248  1.248  
Switzerland  1.047  1.361  1.361  
Syrian Arab Republic  0.036  0.047  0.047  
Tajikistan  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Thailand  0.239  0.311  0.311  
The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia  0.008  0.010  0.010  
Timor -Leste  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Togo  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Tonga  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Trinidad and Tobago  0.044  0.057  0.057  
Tunisia  0.036  0.047  0.047  
Turkey  1.328  1.726  1.726  
Turkmenistan  0.019  0.025  0.025  
Tuvalu  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Uganda  0.006  0.008  0.008  
Ukraine  0.099  0.129  0.129  
United Arab Emirates  0.595  0.774  0.774  
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland  5.179  6.733  6.733  
United Republic of Tanzania  0.009  0.012  0.012  
Uruguay  0.052  0.068  0.068  
Uzbekistan  0.015  0.020  0.020  
Vanuatu  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)  0.627  0.815  0.815  
Viet Nam  0.042  0.055  0.055  
Yemen  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Zambia  0.006  0.008  0.008  
Zimbabwe  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Total  77.506  100.000  100.000  FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
 23 Annex II  
[English only]  
Fees for the international transaction log for the biennium 2016 –2017  
Party  Fees  
for 2016  
(EUR)  Fees  
for 2017  
(EUR)  Scale of fees  
for 2016–2017a 
(per cent)  
Australia  76 016  76 016  2.841  
Austria  42 490  42 490  1.588  
Belgium  52 791  52 791  1.973  
Bulgaria  963 963 0.036  
Croatia  2 114  2 114  0.079  
Czech Republic  13 459  13 459  0.503  
Denmark  35 399  35 399  1.323  
Estonia  749 749 0.028  
European Union  71 842  71 842  2.685  
Finland  26 998  26 998  1.009  
France  285 415  285 415  10.667  
Germany  410 716  410 716  15.350  
Greece  28 496  28 496  1.065  
Hungary  11 693  11 693  0.437  
Iceland  19 720  19 720  0.737  
Ireland  21 325  21 325  0.797  
Italy 243 219  243 219  9.090  
Japan  399 718  399 718  14.939  
Latvia  856 856 0.032  
Liechtenstein  5 030  5 030  0.188  
Lithuania  1 472  1 472 0.055  
Luxembourg  4 094  4 094  0.153  
Monaco  4 843  4 843  0.181  
Netherlands  89 689  89 689  3.352  
New Zealand  25 713  25 713  0.961  
Norway  62 049  62 049  2.319  
Poland  23 974  23 974  0.896  
Portugal  25 232  25 232  0.943  
Romania  3 345  3 345  0.125  
Russian Federation  73 394  73 394  2.743  
Slovakia  3 024  3 024  0.113  
Slovenia  4 575  4 575  0.171  
Spain  142 105  142 105  5.311  
Sweden  51 293  51 293  1.917  
Switzerland  73 849  73 849  2.760  
Ukraine  19 934  19 934  0.745  
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland  318 084  318 084  11.888  
Total  2 675 678  2 675 678  100.000  
a  As contained in decision 8/CMP.11 .  
8th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015FCCC/KP/CMP/2015/8/Add.2  
24  Resolution 1/CMP.11  
  Expression of gratitude to the Government of the French 
Republic and the people of the city of Paris  
Draft resolution submitted by Morocco  
The Conference of the Parties and the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol , 
Having met  in Paris from 30 November to 11 December 2015 at the invitation of the 
Government of the French Republic,  
1. Express  their profound gratitude  to the Government of the Frenc h Republic for 
having made it possible for the twenty -first session of the Conference of the Parties and the 
eleventh session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Kyoto Protocol to be held in Paris;  
2. Request  the Gove rnment of the French Republic to convey to the city and people of 
Paris the gratitude of the Conference of the Parties and the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol for the hospitality and warmth 
extended to the participants.  
9th plenary meeting  
13 December 2015  
     
 
GE.17 -01421(E)  

Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting  
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  
  Report of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol on its twelfth 
session , held in Marrakech  from 7 to 18 November  2016 
 Addendum  
 Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at its twelfth session  
Contents  
  Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties  serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  
Decision   Page 
  1/CMP.12  Third Review of the Adaptation Fund  ................................ ................................ .......  2 
  2/CMP.12  Report of the Adaptation Fund Board  ................................ ................................ ........   5 
  3/CMP.12  Guidance relating to the clean development mechanism  ................................ ...........   8 
  4/CMP.12  Guidance on the implementation of Article 6 of the Kyoto Protocol  ........................   12 
  5/CMP.12  Review of the joint implemen tation guidelines  ................................ .........................   14 
  6/CMP.12  Third comprehensive review of the implementation of the framework for  
capacity -building in developing countries under the Kyoto Protocol  ........................   15 
  7/CMP.12  Financial and budgetary matters  ................................ ................................ ................   17 
  8/CMP.12  Administrative, financi al and institutional matters  ................................ ....................   18 
Resolution  
  1/CMP.12  Expression of gratitude to the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco and the  
people of Marrakech  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..  26  United Nations  FCCC /KP/CMP/2016/ 8/Add.1  
 
 
 
  
Distr.: General  
31 January 2017  
 
Original: English  
FCCC/KP/CMP/2016/8/Add.1  
2  Decision 1/CMP.12 
  Third Review of the Adaptation Fund  
The Conference of the Parties  serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Recalling  decisions 1/CMP.3 and 6/CMP.6 on the three -year revie w cycle fo r the 
Adaptation Fund,  
Also recalling  decisions 2/CMP.9 and 2/CMP.10,  
Further recalling decision 1/CP.21,  
1. Decides  that the third review of the Adaptation Fund will be undertaken in 
accordance with the terms of reference contained in the annex;  
2. Requests  the Adaptation Fund Board to make available in its report to the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at its 
thirteenth session (November 2017) information on the financial status of the Adaptation 
Fund wit h a view to the third review of the Adaptation Fund being finalized at the same 
session;  
3. Invites  Parties and observer organizations, as well as other interested international 
organizations, stakeholders and non -governmental organizations involved in the ac tivities 
of the Adaptation Fund and implementing entities accredited by the Adaptation Fund 
Board, to submit by 30 April 2017 their views on the third review of the Adaptation Fund 
based on the terms of reference contained in the annex , for consideration b y the Subsidiary 
Body for Implementation at its forty -sixth session (May 2017);1 
4. Requests  the secretariat, in collaboration with the Adaptation Fund Board secretariat, 
to prepare a technical paper on the third review of the Adaptation Fund, in accordance w ith 
the terms of reference contained in the annex, taking into account the deliberations and 
conclusions of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its forty -sixth session and the 
views referred to in paragraph 3 above, for consideration by the Subsidiar y Body for 
Implementation at its forty -seventh session (November 2017);  
5. Also requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to complete its work on the 
third review of the Adaptation Fund at its forty -seventh session with a view to 
recommending a draft decision on the matter for consideration and adoption by  the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at its 
thirteenth session.  
                                                           
 1 Parties should submit their views via the submissions portal at < http://www.unfccc.int/5900 >. 
Observer organizations should e -mail their submissions to <secretariat@unfccc.int>.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2016/8/Add.1  
 3 Annex  
Terms of reference  for the third review of the Adaptation Fund  
 I. Objective  
1. The objective of the third review of the Adaptation Fund is to ensure the 
effectiveness, sustainability and adequacy of the fund and its operations with a view to the 
Conference of the Parties serv ing as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol (CMP) 
adopting a decision on the matter at CMP 13 (November 2017).  
 II. Scope  
2. The scope of the review will cover the progress made to date and lessons learned in 
the operationalization and implementat ion of the fund and will focus on, inter alia:  
(a) The provision of sustainable, predictable and adequate financial resources  
and the mobilization of financial resources  to fund concrete adaptation projects and 
programmes that are country -driven and based on the needs, views and priorities of eligible 
developing country Parties;  
(b) Lessons learned from:  
(i) The application of the access modalities of the Adaptation Fund, including its 
operational policies and guidelines, including its Streamlined Accreditation 
Proces s; 
(ii) The project approval procedures  of the Adaptation Fund ; 
(iii) The results and impacts of approved adaptation projects and programmes;  
(iv) The readiness programme for direct access to climate finance, including the 
component aimed at increasing South –South cooperation between accredited 
national implementing entities and those seeking accreditation;  
(v) The pilot programme for regional projects;  
(c) Programming and project coherence and complementarity between the 
Adaptation Fund and other institutions funding adapt ation projects and programmes, in 
particular institutions under the Convention and the operating entities of the Financial 
Mechanism and its specialized funds ;  
(d) The institutional arrangements for the Adaptation Fund, in particular the 
arrangements with the  interim secretariat and the interim trustee.  
 III. Sources of information  
3. The review shall draw upon, inter alia, the following sources of information:  
(a) Submissions from Parties to the Kyoto Protocol, observer organizations, 
other interested international organizations, stakeholders and non -governmental 
organizations involved in the activities of the Adaptation Fund and implementing entities 
accredited by the Adaptation Fund Board on their experiences regarding the Adaptation 
Fund;  FCCC/KP/CMP/2016/8/Add.1  
4  (b) The annual reports of the  Global Environment Facility (GEF) to the 
Conference of the Parties (COP) on its activities as an operating entity of the Financial 
Mechanism, including the information on the Least Developed Countries Fund and the 
Special Climate Change Fund, and other re levant GEF policy, information and evaluation 
documents;  
(c) The annual reports of the Green Climate Fund (GCF) to the COP on its 
activities as an operating entity of the Financial Mechanism and other relevant GCF policy 
and information documents;  
(d) The report o f the Adaptation Fund Board to the CMP, the Adaptation Fund 
annual performance report for the most recent fiscal year and the outcomes of the initial 
and second reviews of the Adaptation Fund;  
(e) The outcomes and reports emanating from United Nations processe s, relevant 
bilateral and multilateral funding institutions and other intergovernmental and non -
governmental organizations dealing with climate change financing;  
(f) The reports of the Standing Committee on Finance;  
(g) The reports on the work programme on long -term finance;1 
(h) The reports of the Least Developed Countries Expert Group, the Adaptation 
Committee and the Consultative Group of Experts on National Communications from 
Parties not included in Annex I to the Convention;  
(i) The technical paper and summary for p olicymakers arising from the technical 
examination process on adaptation  in 2016 ; 
(j) The report on the independent evaluation of the Adaptation Fund (stage 1).2  
9th plenary meeting  
17 November  2016 
 
                                                           
 1 FCCC/CP/2012/3 and FCCC/CP/20 13/7.  
 2 Available at < https://www.adaptation -fund.org/wp -content/uploads/2015/09/AFB.EFC_.17.3 -
Evaluation -of-the-Fund -stage -I.pdf >. FCCC/KP/CMP/2016/8/Add.1  
 5 Decision 2/CMP.12 
  Report of the Adaptation Fund Board  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Recalling decisions 1/CMP.3, 2/CMP.10 and 1/CMP.11,  
Also recalling decision 1/CP.21,  
Noting the annual repor t of the Adaptation Fund Board,1  
1. Notes  the following information, actions and decisions relating to the Adaptation 
Fund contained in the report of the Adaptation Fund Board and the oral report provided by 
the Chair of the Adaptation Fund Board in November  2016:  
(a) The accreditation of 25 national implementing entities that can access 
resources from the Adaptation Fund directly, including 4 entities accredited during the 
reporting period, and the accreditation of 6 regional implementing entities, including 2 
accredited during the reporting period;  
(b) Cumulative project and programme approvals reaching USD 358 million as 
at 9 November 2016;  
(c) Funds available for new funding approvals amounting to USD 230.5 million 
as at 17 November 2016;  
(d) The approval of six project/programme proposals, totalling USD 36.8 
million, submitted by implementing entities, including four proposals submitted by national 
implementing entities totalling USD 19.2 million;  
(e) The cumulative receipts of USD 546.9 million into the Adaptation T rust 
Fund;  
(f) The institutionalization of the readiness programme for direct access as a 
permanent component of the Adaptation Fund’s operations and the approval of South –
South cooperation grants for Guinea, Malawi, Sierra Leone and Zimbabwe totalling USD 
242,347, and technical assistance grants for Benin, Costa Rica, Micronesia (the Federated 
States of), Panama, Senegal and South Africa totalling USD 118,000;  
(g) The endorsement of the first concepts and pre -concepts under the pilot 
programme for regional project s/programmes, as well as the decision of the Adaptation 
Fund Board to extend the opportunity to submit regional proposals beyond the pilot 
programme;  
(h) The approval of the gender policy and action plan of the Adaptation Fund;  
(i) The ongoing discussion on linkag es between the Adaptation Fund and the 
Green Climate Fund;  
(j) The fact that, in the light of the early entry into force of the Paris Agreement, 
the timelines given in paragraphs 59 and 60 of decision 1/CP.21 and paragraphs 8 and 9 of 
decision 1/CMP.11 may not  align;  
                                                           
 1 FCCC/KP/CMP/2016/2 . FCCC/KP/CMP/2016/8/Add.1  
6  2. Decides to renew the interim institutional arrangements with the Global 
Environment Facility as the interim secretariat of the Adaptation Fund Board for an 
additional three years, from 30 May 2017 to 30 May 2020;  
3. Also decides  to restate the terms and conditions of the services to be provided by the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the World Bank) as the interim 
trustee of the Adaptation Fund and to extend the term of the trustee’s services for an 
addition al three years, from 30 May 2017 to 30 May 2020;  
4. Welcomes  the financial pledges and contributions made to the Adaptation Fund by 
the Governments of Germany, Italy, Sweden and the Flemish and Walloon Regions of 
Belgium, amounting to USD 81 million;  
5. Takes n ote of the resource mobilization strategy of the Adaptation Fund Board;  
6. Notes  with concern  issues related to the sustainability, adequacy and predictability 
of funding for the Adaptation Fund based on the current uncertainty on the prices of 
certified emis sion reductions , assigned amount units and emission reduction units;  
7. Notes  that the scale of funding required for projects in the active pipeline is 
estimated to be of the scale of USD 233.5 million and that the current available funds for 
new projects amo unt to USD  230.5 million, resulting in a current funding gap of USD 3 
million;  
8. Encourages  developed country Parties to scale up financial resources for the 
implementation of adaptation projects in the active pipeline of the Adaptation Fund;  
9. Also encourage s the provision of voluntary support that is additional to the share of 
proceeds from clean development mechanism project activities in order to support the 
resource mobilization efforts of the Adaptation Fund Board, with a view to strengthening 
the Adapta tion Fund;  
10. Further encourages the Adaptation Fund Board, in implementing its resource 
mobilization strategy, to further consider all potential sources of funding;  
11. Encourages  the Adaptation Fund Board to continue its consideration of linkages 
between the Ad aptation Fund and other funds, including the Green Climate Fund, and to 
report on its findings to the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties 
to the Kyoto Protocol at its thirteenth session (November 2017);  
12. Highlights  the findings o f the first stage of an independent overall evaluation of the 
Adaptation Fund,2 including that:  
(a) The Adaptation Fund has pioneered several issues related to adaptation 
finance and is meeting developing countries’ needs, including those related to direct acc ess; 
(b) The design of the Adaptation Fund and its operational processes are efficient 
and largely coherent with guidance under the Convention and national adaptation priorities;  
(c) The Adaptation Fund has allowed countries to advance the implementation of 
import ant measures at the national and subnational levels, with links to national 
policymaking;  
(d) The policies adopted by the Adaptation Fund have created a solid foundation 
for operational success;  
13. Takes note of the information provided by the Adaptation Fund Boa rd on the added 
value of the Adaptation Fund for the operationalization of the Paris Agreement, as 
contained in the addendum to annex I to the report of the Adaptation Fund Board;  
                                                           
 2 Available at <https://www.adaptation -fund.org/document/independent -evaluation -of-the-adaptation -
fund-first-phase -evaluation -report/>.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2016/8/Add.1  
 7 14. Invites  the Conference of the Parties to bring the infor mation referred to i n 
paragraph  13 above to the attention of the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris Agreement.  
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2016 FCCC/KP/CMP/2016/8/Add.1  
8  Decision 3/CMP.12 
  Guidance relating to the clean development mechanism  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol ,  
Recalling the provisions of Articles 3 and 12 of the Kyoto Protocol and decision 
1/CMP.6,  
Cognizant of decision 3/CMP.1 and subsequent guidance provided by the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol 
relating to the clean development mechanism,  
Noting decision 1/CP.19, on the promotion of the voluntary cancellation of 
certified emission reductions as a means of closing the pre -2020 ambition ga p, 
Urging  Parties to deposit with the Depositary their instruments of acceptance in 
respect of the Doha Amendment pursuant to Article 20 of the Kyoto Protocol with a view 
to expediting its entry into force,1 
I. General  
1. Takes note of the report for 2015 –2016 of the Executive Board of the clean 
development mechanism (hereinafter referred to as the Executive Board);2 
2. Acknowledges  the work undertaken by the Executive Board over the past year;  
3. Notes  that the clean development mechanism of the Kyoto Protocol, to da te, has 
been responsible for:3 
(a) Over 7,700 project activities being registered in over 95 countries;  
(b) Over 1,900 component project activities being included in over 290 
programmes of activities registered in over 80 countries;  
(c) Over 1.7 billion certified emission reductions being issued and over USD 300 
billion being invested;  
(d) Over 15 million certified emission reductions voluntarily cancelled;  
(e) Over 34 million certified emission reductions being transferred through the 
share of proceeds to the Adaptation F und; 
(f) Over USD 195 million of revenue for the Adaptation Fund from the sale of 
certified emission reductions;  
(g) A total of 78 loans under the CDM Loan Scheme being approved and over 
USD 6.2 million of total commitment;4 
(h) A total of 37 sustainable development c o-benefit description reports being 
published using the voluntary sustainable development tool;  
                                                           
 1 Decision 1/CMP.8.  
 2 FCCC/KP/CMP/2016/4 . 
 3 See document FCCC/KP/CMP/2016/4 and <http://cdm.unfccc.int/>.  
 4 To date, 62 loan agreeme nts have been entered into.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2016/8/Add.1  
 9 4. Encourages  the Executive Board to continue its activities in response to decision 
6/CMP.11, paragraphs 7 and 8;  
5. Also encourages  the Executive Board to continue the simplification of the clean 
development mechanism, with the aim of further simplifying and streamlining, in particular 
the registration and issuance processes, and methodologies, while maintaining 
environmental integrity;  
6. Requests  the Executive Board t o analyse the overall cost for designated operational 
entities and to report back to the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at its thirteenth session (November 2017);  
7. Designates  as operational entities tho se entities that have been accredited, and 
provisionally designated, as operational entities by the Executive Board to carry out the 
sector -specific validation functions and/or sector -specific verification functions described 
in the annex;  
II. Baseline and mon itoring methodologies  
8. Encourages the Executive Board to explore possibilities for reducing the transaction 
costs of monitoring by expanding the use of tiered approaches offering a choice between 
conservative default values and direct measurements;  
9. Also enc ourages  the Executive Board to continue its activities in response to 
decision 6/CMP.11, paragraph 14;  
III. Regional and subregional distribution  
10. Invites  the Executive Board to further work on the development of simplified clean 
development mechanism methodolog ies and standardized baselines, while maintaining 
environmental integrity, in collaboration with regional collaboration centres;  
IV. CDM Loan Scheme  
11. Recalls the purpose of the CDM Loan Scheme, which is to increase the participation  
of underrepresented countries in the clean development mechanism;  
12. Takes note  of the report on the evaluation of the CDM Loan Scheme, implemented 
pursuant to decision 2/CMP.5, paragraphs 49 and 50, and decision 3/CMP.6, paragraphs 64 
and 67, and annex III;  
13. Recognizes  the implications for the CDM Loan Scheme of the current low price of 
certified emission reductions and, in particular, the implications for the recipients of CDM 
Loan Scheme funds with regard to potential difficulties in the repayment of loans;  
14. Decides  that the implementing agency of the CDM Loan Scheme, after consultation 
with the secretariat, may write off amounts disbursed under individual loans on a case -by-
case basis, where it becomes evident that it will not be feasible for the loan recipi ent to 
repay the disbursed funds;  
15. Requests  the implementing agency and the secretariat to work closely with loan 
recipients that wish to continue under the CDM Loan Scheme to help those recipients to 
identify ways to progress through the project cycle, inc luding making adjustments to loan 
agreement terms, if appropriate;  FCCC/KP/CMP/2016/8/Add.1  
10  16. Decides  that the secretariat should not seek a new implementing agency after the 
expiry of the term of the current contract as required by decision 3/CMP.6, annex III, 
paragraph 8;  
17. Also dec ides that other changes to the CDM Loan Scheme are not required at this 
time;  
V. Resources for work on the clean development mechanism  
18. Requests  the Executive Board to continue to ensure the prudent management of the 
resources of the clean development mechanis m and its ability to perform its duties in 
maintaining and developing the mechanism up to the end of the true -up period of the 
second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol.  
 FCCC/KP/CMP/2016/8/Add.1  
 11 Annex  
Designation of operational entities by the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at its twelfth 
session and changes in accreditation status of entities during the 
reporting period of the Executive Board (17 O ctober 2015 to 17 
September 2016)  
Name of entity  Sectoral scopes (validation and verification)  
DNV Climate Change Services AS (DNV)a  1, 3, 5 and 13  
ERM Certification and Verification Services Limited (ERM 
CVS)b 1, 3–5, 8–10 and 13  
Foundation for Industrial Development (MASCI)c 1, 3, 4, 9, 10, 13 and 15  
Foundation for Industrial Development (MASCI)b  1 and 13  
Foundation for Industrial Development (MASCI)d  1 and 13  
Germanischer Lloyd Certification GmbH (GLC)a 1, 3 and 13  
Hong Kong Quality Assurance Agency (HKQAA)e 1 
Japan Quality Assurance Organisation (JQA)b  1, 3–5, 10, 13 and 14  
Korea Energy Agency (KEA)f  
(transfer of accreditation from Korea Energy Management 
Corporation (KEMCO))  1, 3–5, 7, 9 and 11 –15 
 
Northeast Audit Co. Ltd (NAC)a 1–13 and 15  
RINA Services S.p.A. (RINA)d 6 and 7  
SGS United Kingdom Limited (SGS)b  1, 4, 7, 10 and 13  
SIRIM QAS INTERNATIONAL SDN.BHD (SIRIM)b 1 and 13  
a   Voluntary withdrawal of accreditation in its entirety.  
b   Voluntary withdrawal of accreditation; the remaining sectoral scopes are indicated.  
c   Entity provisionally suspended; only the suspended sectoral scopes are indicated.  
d   Lifting of suspension; only the suspended sectoral scopes to be lifted are indicated.  
e   Accreditation  granted for five years.  
f   Transfer of accreditation from another legal entity.  
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2016 
 FCCC/KP/CMP/2016/8/Add.1  
12  Decision 4/CMP.12 
Guidance on the implementation of Article 6 of the Kyoto 
Protocol  
The Conference  of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Recalling the provisions of Articles 3 and 6 of the Kyoto Protocol,  
Cognizant of decision 9/CMP.1 and subsequent guidance provided by the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol 
relating to joint implementation,  
Urging  Parties to deposit with the Depositary their instruments of acceptance in 
respect of the Doha Amendment1 pursuant to Article 20 of the Kyoto Protocol with a view 
to exped iting its entry into force,  
1. Takes note  of the outcomes of joint implementation in the period 2006 –2016, 
accounting for 548  Track 1 projects,2 52 Track 2 projects3 and over 871 million emission 
reduction units issued for emission reductions;  
2. Also takes note  of the report of the Joint Implementation  Supervisory Committee for 
2015 –2016;4 
3. Notes with appreciation  the work by the Joint Implementation  Supervisory 
Committee5 on the reflections on and analysis of experiences and lessons learned from joint 
implementa tion;6 
4. Reiterates  its concern regarding the difficult market situation currently faced by 
participants in joint implementation, with projects declining to a point where the activity 
under the mechanism is practically non -existent;  
5. Also reiterates its request to the Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee to 
ensure sufficient infrastructure and capacity for the mechanism’s use by Parties for as long 
as is needed, making necessary adjustments to ensure the efficient , cost -effective and 
transparent  functioning of joint implementation;  
6. Decides that, in order to continue the prudent management of resources, the Joint 
Implementation Supervisory Committee shall meet at least once each year;  
7. Affirms  that the Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee  may conduct its 
meetings using virtual participation7 and electronic consultation and decision -making;  
8. Decides that, with regard to the meetings referred to in the rules of procedure of the 
Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee, the virtual participa tion of members or 
alternates acting as members in its meetings counts towards a quorum and that virtual 
                                                           
 1 Decision 1/CMP.8.  
 2 Decision 9/CMP.1, annex, paragraph 23 . 
 3 The verification procedure under the Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee, defined in 
decision 9/CMP.1, annex, paragraphs 30 –45. 
 4 FCCC/KP/CMP/2016/5.  
 5 As requested through decision 7/CMP.11, paragraphs 6 –8. 
 6  FCCC/KP/CMP/2016/5 , annex I.  
 7 As reflected in Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee document JI -JISC39 -AA-A02, 
paragraphs 16 –20, available at <http://ji.unfccc.int/MeetingInfo/DB/C0BRXFOZM7 K843E/view>.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2016/8/Add.1  
 13 meetings of the Joint Implementation Supervisory  Committee are meetings of the 
committee;  
9. Also decides that electronic submission of the signed oath of  service by members 
and alternates of the Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee is sufficient to fulfil the 
requirements of the rules of procedure.  
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2016FCCC/KP/CMP/2016/8/Add.1  
14  Decision 5/CMP.12 
  Review of the join t implementation guidelines  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Recalling decision 9/CMP.1, which sets out the guidelines for the implementation of 
Article 6 of the Kyoto Protocol (hereinafter referred  to as the joint implementation 
guidelines), and decisions 4/CMP.6, 11/CMP.7 and 6/CMP.8 in relation to the review of the 
joint implementation guidelines,  
Recognizing  that the level of activity in relation to joint implementation has 
significantly decreased,  
1. Commends the work done by the Subsidiary Body for Implementation and the Joint 
Implementation Supervisory Committee over the past years in responding to the reques ts of 
the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol 
pursuant to decision 6/CMP.8, paragraphs 14 and 15, and subsequent decisions, in relation 
to the review of the joint implementation guidelines;  
2. Decides to concl ude its review of the joint implementation guidelines without 
adopting any revisions to them;  
3. Notes  that the draft conclusions of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation 
contained in document FCCC/SBI/2016/L.8 represent experience gained and lessons 
learned  from joint implementation in relation to the review of the joint implementation 
guidelines.  
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2016FCCC/KP/CMP/2016/8/Add.1  
 15 Decision 6/CMP.12 
  Third comprehensive review of the implementation of the 
framework for capacity -building in developing countries 
under the Kyoto Protocol  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol,  
Recalling decisions  29/CMP .1, 6/CMP.4, 15/CMP.7, 2/CP.7 and 2/CP.17,  
1. Recognizes  that, while the objective and scope of the needs and priority areas 
identified in the framework for capacity -building in developing countries established under 
decision 2/CP.7 and the priority areas for  capacity -building relating to the participation of 
developing countries in project activities  under the clean development mechanism as 
contained in decision 29/CMP.1 are still relevant, current and emerging areas should also 
be taken into consideration in  the further implementation of capacity -building activities in 
developing countries;  
2. Invites  Parties to continue to implement the framework for capacity -building in 
developing countries under the Kyoto Protocol by:  
(a) Enhancing consultations with all stakehol ders throughout the development of 
projects;  
(b) Enhancing the capacity of stakeholders to identify, attract, apply for and 
manage different types of public and private financial resources;  
(c) Strengthening networking and information sharing, including among 
developing countries, especially through South –South cooperation ; 
(d) Strengthening the capacity of designated national  authorities  through regional 
collaboration centers;  
3. Also invites  Parties to consider how to enhance existing reporting on the impacts of 
capac ity-building activities, good practices and lessons learned and on how they are fed 
back into relevant processes to enhance  the implementation of capacity -building activities;  
4. Further invites  all Parties to cooperate to enhance the capacity of developing 
country Parties to implement the Kyoto Protocol, and developed  country Parties to enhance 
support for capacity -building actions in developing country Parties;  
5. Invites  relevant intergovernmenta l and non -governmental organizations, as well as 
the private sector, academia and other stakeholders, to continue incorporating  into their 
work programmes the scope of capacity -building needs as contained in decisions 29/ CMP .1 
and 6/CMP.4;  
6. Decides  to concl ude the third comprehensive review of the implementation of the 
framework for capacity -building in developing countries under the Kyoto Protocol and to 
initiate the fourth comprehensive review thereof at the fifty -second session of the 
Subsidiary Body for Implementation, with a view to completing that review at the 
seventeenth session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to 
the Kyoto Protocol;  
7. Invites  Parties, observers and other stakeholders to submit, by 9 March 2017, the ir 
views on the fourth review of the implementation of the framework  for capacity -building in FCCC/KP/CMP/2016/8/Add.1  
16  countries with economies in transition established under decision 3/CP.7, to be conducted  
at the forty -sixth session of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation (Ma y 2017) and 
concluded at the thirteenth session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol (November 2017);1, 2 
8. Also invites  Parties and observers to submit , by 9 March 2017, suggestions for 
potential topic s related to the Kyoto Protocol for the 6th meeting of the Durban Forum;3 
9. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat  called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources . 
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2016 
                                                           
 1 As per decision 11/CMP.8, paragraph 4.  
 2 Parties should submit their views via the submission portal at <http://www.unfccc.int/5900>. 
Observers and other stakeholders should e -mail their submissions to <secretariat@unfccc.int>.  
 3 As foot note 2 above  FCCC/KP/CMP/2016/8/Add.1  
 17 Decision 7/CMP.12 
  Financial and budgetary matters  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Taking note  of decision 22/CP.22 , 
Having considered  the proposed revised staffing table for the biennium 2016 –2017,  
Endorses  decision 22/CP.22  on the revised staffing table for the biennium 2016 –
2017 within the programme budget approved for this biennium.  
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2016 FCCC/KP/CMP/2016/8/Add.1  
18  Decision 8/CMP.12 
  Administrative, financial and institutional matters  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Recalling Article 13, paragraph 5, of the Kyoto Protocol,  
Also recalling paragraph 11 of the financial procedures of the Conference of the 
Parties, which also applies to the Kyoto Protocol ,1  
Taking note of decision 23/CP.22 ,2  
Having considered the information  contained in the documents prepared by the 
secretariat on administrative, financial and institutional matters,3 
I. Budget performance for the biennium 2016 –2017  
1. Takes note  of the information contained in the report on budget performance for the 
period 1 Janu ary 2016 to 30 June 2016,4 the note on the status of contributions as at 21 
October 20165 to the trust funds administered by the secretariat and the note on the revised 
indicative contributions for the biennium 2016 –2017;6 
2. Expresses  its appreciation  to Par ties that have made contributions to the core budget 
and the international transaction log in a timely manner;  
3. Expresses concern regarding the high level of outstanding contributions to the core 
budget for the current and previous bienniums, which has res ulted in difficulties with cash 
flow;  
4. Strongly urges  Parties that have not made contributions in full to the core budget to do 
so without further delay;  
5. Calls upon  Parties to make their contributions to the core budget and the international 
transaction log  for the year 2017 in a timely manner, bearing in mind that contributions are 
due on 1 January of each year in accordance with the financial procedures;  
6. Requests  the secretariat to explore options on ways to address outstanding 
contributions to the core b udget for consideration by the Subsidiary  Body for 
Implementation at its forty -sixth session (May 2017) ; 
7. Expresses its appreciation  for the contributions received from Parties to the Trust 
Fund for Participation in the UNFCCC Process and to the Trust Fund for Supplementary 
Activities;  
                                                           
 1 Decision 15/CP.1, annex I.  
 2 Draft decision proposed for adoption under agenda item 17(a –c) of the Subsidiary Body for 
Implementation.   
 3 FCCC/SBI/2016/13 , FCCC/SBI/2016/INF.12 and Add.1,  FCCC/SBI/2016/INF.14 , 
FCCC/SBI/2016/INF.15  and FCCC/SBI/2016/INF.19 . 
 4 FCCC/SBI/2016/13 . 
 5 FCCC/SBI/2016/INF.19.  
 6 FCCC/SBI/2016/INF.15.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2016/8/Add.1  
 19 8. Urges  Parties to further contribute to the Trust Fund for Participation in the UNFCCC 
Process, in order to ensure the widest possible participation in the negotiations, and to the 
Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities;  
9. Reque sts the secretariat to explore options for increasing the flexibility of the funds in 
the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities for consideration by the Subsidiary Body for 
Implementation at its forty -sixth session ; 
10. Reiterates  its appreciation  to the Gov ernment of Germany for its annual voluntary 
contribution to the core budget of EUR 766,938 and its special contribution of EUR 
1,789,522 as Host Government of the secretariat;  
11. Adopts  the revised scale of contributions for 2016 –2017 contained in the annex;  
II. Audit report and financial statements for 2015  
12. Takes note  of the audit report of the United Nations Board of Auditors7 and the 
financial statements for 2015, which include recommendations , and the comments of the 
secretariat thereon;  
13. Expresses its appreciation  to the United Nations for arranging the audits of the 
accounts of the Convention and for the valuable observations and recommendations of the 
auditors;  
14. Urges the Executive Secretary to implement the recommendations of the auditors, as 
appropri ate; 
III. Other financial matters  
15. Endorses  decision 23/CP.228 on administrative, financial and institutional matters  as it 
applies to the Kyoto Protocol, in particular the provisions contained in section III.  
  
                                                           
 7 FCCC/SBI/2016/INF .12 and Add.1.   
 8 As footnote 2 above.   FCCC/KP/CMP/2016/8/Add.1  
20  Annex  
[English only]  
Trust Fund for the Core Budget of the UNFCCC (Kyoto Protocol): 
revised indicative contributions for the biennium 2016 –2017 in euros  
Party   
United Nations 
revised scale of 
assessments  
2016–2018   
UNFCCC revised 
indicative scale of 
contributions for 
2016   
UNFCCC revised 
indicative scale of 
contributions for 
2017  
Afghanistan  0.006a 0.008  0.008  
Albania  0.008  0.010  0.010  
Algeria  0.161  0.209  0.209  
Angola  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Antigua and Barbuda  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Argentina  0.892  1.159  1.159  
Armenia  0.006  0.008  0.008  
Australia  2.337  3.036  3.035  
Austria  0.720  0.935  0.935  
Azerbaijan  0.060  0.078  0.078  
Bahamas  0.014  0.018  0.018  
Bahrain  0.044  0.057  0.057  
Bangladesh  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Barbados  0.007  0.009  0.009  
Belarus  0.056  0.073  0.073  
Belgium  0.885  1.150  1.150  
Belize  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Benin  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Bhutan  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Bolivia (Plurinational State of)  0.012  0.016  0.016  
Bosnia and Herzegovina  0.013  0.017  0.017  
Botswana  0.014  0.018  0.018  
Brazil  3.823  4.966  4.966  
Brunei Darussalam  0.029  0.038  0.038  
Bulgaria  0.045  0.058  0.058  
Burkina Faso  0.004  0.005  0.005  
Burundi  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Cabo Verde  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Cambodia  0.004  0.005  0.005  
Cameroon  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Central African Republic  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Chad  0.005  0.006  0.006  FCCC/KP/CMP/2016/8/Add.1  
 21 Party   
United Nations 
revised scale of 
assessments  
2016–2018   
UNFCCC revised 
indicative scale of 
contributions for 
2016   
UNFCCC revised 
indicative scale of 
contributions for 
2017  
Chile  0.399  0.518  0.518  
China  7.921  10.289  10.288  
Colombia  0.322  0.418  0.418  
Comoros  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Congo  0.006  0.008  0.008  
Cook Islands  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Costa Rica  0.047  0.061  0.061  
Côte d’Ivoire  0.009  0.012  0.012  
Croatia  0.099  0.129  0.129  
Cuba  0.065  0.084  0.084  
Cyprus  0.043  0.056  0.056  
Czechia  0.344  0.447  0.447  
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea  0.005  0.006  0.006  
Democratic Republic of the Congo  0.008  0.010  0.010  
Denmark  0.584  0.759  0.759  
Djibouti  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Dominica  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Dominican Republic  0.046  0.060  0.060  
Ecuador  0.067  0.087  0.087  
Egypt  0.152  0.197  0.197  
El Salvador  0.014  0.018  0.018  
Equatorial Guinea  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Eritrea  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Estonia  0.038  0.049  0.049  
Ethiopia  0.010  0.013  0.013  
European Union  2.500  2.500  2.500  
Fiji 0.003  0.004  0.004  
Finland  0.456  0.592  0.592  
France  4.859  6.311  6.311  
Gabon  0.017  0.022  0.022  
Gambia  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Georgia  0.008  0.010  0.010  
Germany  6.389  8.299  8.299  
Ghana  0.016  0.021  0.021  
Greece  0.471  0.612  0.612  
Grenada  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Guatemala  0.028  0.036  0.036  
Guinea  0.002  0.003  0.003  FCCC/KP/CMP/2016/8/Add.1  
22  Party   
United Nations 
revised scale of 
assessments  
2016–2018   
UNFCCC revised 
indicative scale of 
contributions for 
2016   
UNFCCC revised 
indicative scale of 
contributions for 
2017  
Guinea -Bissau  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Guyana  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Haiti  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Honduras  0.008  0.010  0.010  
Hungary  0.161  0.209  0.209  
Iceland  0.023  0.030  0.030  
India  0.737  0.957  0.957  
Indonesia  0.504  0.655  0.655  
Iran (Islamic Republic of)  0.471  0.612  0.612  
Iraq 0.129  0.168  0.168  
Ireland  0.335  0.435  0.435  
Israel  0.430  0.559  0.559  
Italy 3.748  4.868  4.868  
Jamaica  0.009  0.012  0.012  
Japan  9.680  12.573  12.573  
Jordan  0.020  0.026  0.026  
Kazakhstan  0.191  0.248  0.248  
Kenya  0.018  0.023  0.023  
Kiribati  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Kuwait  0.285  0.370  0.370  
Kyrgyzstan  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Lao People’s Democratic Republic  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Latvia  0.050  0.065  0.065  
Lebanon  0.046  0.060  0.060  
Lesotho  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Liberia  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Libya  0.125  0.162  0.162  
Liechtenstein  0.007  0.009  0.009  
Lithuania  0.072  0.094  0.094  
Luxembourg  0.064  0.083  0.083  
Madagascar  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Malawi  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Malaysia  0.322  0.418  0.418  
Maldives  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Mali  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Malta  0.016  0.021  0.021  
Marshall Islands  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Mauritania  0.002  0.003  0.003  FCCC/KP/CMP/2016/8/Add.1  
 23 Party   
United Nations 
revised scale of 
assessments  
2016–2018   
UNFCCC revised 
indicative scale of 
contributions for 
2016   
UNFCCC revised 
indicative scale of 
contributions for 
2017  
Mauritius  0.012  0.016  0.016  
Mexico  1.435  1.864  1.864  
Micronesia (Federated States of)  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Monaco  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Mongolia  0.005  0.006  0.006  
Montenegro  0.004  0.005  0.005  
Morocco  0.054  0.070  0.070  
Mozambique  0.004  0.005  0.005  
Myanmar  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Namibia  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Nauru  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Nepal  0.006  0.008  0.008  
Netherlands  1.482  1.925  1.925  
New Zealand  0.268  0.348  0.348  
Nicaragua  0.004  0.005  0.005  
Niger  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Nigeria  0.209  0.271  0.271  
Niue  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Norway  0.849  1.103  1.103  
Oman  0.113  0.147  0.147  
Pakistan  0.093  0.121  0.121  
Palau  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Panama  0.034  0.044  0.044  
Papua New Guinea  0.004  0.005  0.005  
Paraguay  0.014  0.018  0.018  
Peru 0.136  0.177  0.177  
Philippines  0.165  0.214  0.214  
Poland  0.841  1.092  1.092  
Portugal  0.392  0.509  0.509  
Qatar  0.269  0.349  0.349  
Republic of Korea  2.039  2.648  2.648  
Republic of Moldova  0.004  0.005  0.005  
Romania  0.184  0.239  0.239  
Russian Federation  3.088  4.011  4.011  
Rwanda  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Saint Kitts and Nevis  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Saint Lucia  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines  0.001  0.001  0.001  FCCC/KP/CMP/2016/8/Add.1  
24  Party   
United Nations 
revised scale of 
assessments  
2016–2018   
UNFCCC revised 
indicative scale of 
contributions for 
2016   
UNFCCC revised 
indicative scale of 
contributions for 
2017  
Samoa  0.001  0.001  0.001  
San Marino  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Sao Tome and Principe  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Saudi Arabia  1.146  1.489  1.489  
Senegal  0.005  0.006  0.006  
Serbia  0.032  0.042  0.042  
Seychelles  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Sierra Leone  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Singapore  0.447  0.581  0.581  
Slovakia  0.160  0.208  0.208  
Slovenia  0.084  0.109  0.109  
Solomon Islands  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Somalia  0.001  0.001  0.001  
South Africa  0.364  0.473  0.473  
Spain  2.443  3.173  3.173  
Sri Lanka  0.031  0.040  0.040  
Sudan  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Suriname  0.006  0.008  0.008  
Swaziland  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Sweden  0.956  1.242  1.242  
Switzerland  1.140  1.481  1.481  
Syrian Arab Republic  0.024  0.031  0.031  
Tajikistan  0.004  0.005  0.005  
Thailand  0.291  0.378  0.378  
The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia  0.007  0.009  0.009  
Timor -Leste  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Togo  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Tonga  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Trinidad and Tobago  0.034  0.044  0.044  
Tunisia  0.028  0.036  0.036  
Turkey  1.018  1.322  1.322  
Turkmenistan  0.026  0.034  0.034  
Tuvalu  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Uganda  0.009  0.012  0.012  
Ukraine  0.103  0.134  0.134  
United Arab Emirates  0.604  0.785  0.785  
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland  4.463  5.797  5.797  
United Republic of Tanzania  0.010  0.013  0.013  FCCC/KP/CMP/2016/8/Add.1  
 25 Party   
United Nations 
revised scale of 
assessments  
2016–2018   
UNFCCC revised 
indicative scale of 
contributions for 
2016   
UNFCCC revised 
indicative scale of 
contributions for 
2017  
Uruguay  0.079  0.103  0.103  
Uzbekistan  0.023  0.030  0.030  
Vanuatu  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)  0.571  0.742  0.742  
Viet Nam  0.058  0.075  0.075  
Yemen  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Zambia  0.007  0.009  0.009  
Zimbabwe  0.004  0.005  0.005  
Total  102.509  100.000  100.000  
a   For presentation purposes, all  figures of the United Nations revised scale of assessments and of the UNFCCC 
revised indicative scale of contributions are given to three decimal place s. 
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2016 
 FCCC/KP/CMP/2016/8/Add.1  
26  Resolution 1 /CMP.12 
  Expression of gratitude to the Government of the Kingdom of 
Morocco and the people of Marrakech  
Draft resolution submitted by Fiji 
The Conference of the Parties , the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  and the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement , 
Having met  in Marrakech from 7 to 18 November 2016 at the invitation of the 
Government of the Kingdom of Morocco,  
1. Express  their profound gratitude  to the Government  of the Kingdom of Morocco  for 
having made it possible for the twenty -second  session of the Conference of the Parties , the 
twelfth  session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Kyoto Protocol and the first session of  the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement to be held in Marrakech;  
2. Request  the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco  to convey to the city and 
people of Marrakech  the gratitude of the Conference of the Parti es, the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement for the hospitality 
and warmth extended to the participants.  
10th plenary meeting  
18 November 2016 
     
 
GE.18 -01427(E)  

Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting  
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  
  Report of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol on its thirteenth 
session, held in Bonn from 6 to 18 November 2017  
Addendum  
Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at its thirteenth session  
Contents  
  Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  
Decision   Page 
  1/CMP.13  Report of the Adaptation Fund Board  ................................ ...............    2 
  2/CMP.13  Third review of the Adaptation Fund ................................ ................    5 
  3/CMP.13  Guidance relat ing to the clean development mechanism  ..................    7 
  4/CMP.13  Fourth review of the implementation of the framework for  
capacity -building in countries with economies in transition  
under the Kyoto Protocol  ................................ ................................ ..   10 
  5/CMP.13  Administrative, financial and institutional matters  ...........................    11 
  6/CMP.13  Programme budget for the biennium 2018 –2019  .............................    13 
  7/CMP.13  Budget for the international transaction log and a methodology  
for the collection of its fees for the biennium 2018 –2019  ................    18 
  Resolution  
  1/CMP.13  Expression of gratitu de to the Government of the Federal Republic  
of Germany and the people of the city of Bonn  ................................    21 
  United Nations  FCCC /KP/CMP/2017/7/Add.1  
  
Distr.: General  
8 February  2018  
 
Original: English  
FCCC/KP/CMP/2017/7/Add.1  
2  Decision 1/CMP.13  
  Report of the Adaptation Fund Board  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Recalling decisions 1/CMP.3, 2/CMP.10, 1/CMP.11  and 2/CMP.12 , 
Also recalling the Paris Agreement, adopted under the Convention,  
Further recalling decision 1/CP.21, paragraphs 59 and 60, and decision 1/CMA.1, 
paragraph 11 ,  
1. Takes note of the annual report of the Adapt ation Fund Board, and the information 
contained therein;1 
2. Notes the following information, actions and decisions relating to the Adaptation 
Fund Board presented in the report referred to in paragraph 1 above and in the oral report 
provided by the Chair of the Adaptation Fund Board at this session:2 
(a) The accreditation of 26 national implementing entities for accessing 
resources from the Adaptation Fund directly;  
(b) Cumulative project and programme approvals reaching USD 418.1 million as 
at 30 June 2017;  
(c) The reco rd number of project and programme proposals received from 2015 
to 2017 and the rapidly increasing demand for funding;  
(d) Funds available for new funding approvals amounting to USD 185.9 million 
as at 30 June 2017;  
(e) The value of projects and programmes in the active pipeline estimated at 
USD 163.9 million as at 30 June 2017;  
(f) The approval of funding decisions for readiness grants amounting to 
USD  275,000, consisting of USD 100,000 in South –South cooperation grants, USD 
145,000 in technical assistance grants for the environmental and social policy and gender 
policy, and USD 30,000 in technical assistance grants for the gender policy;  
(g) The approval of three regional (multi -country) projects, with total funding of 
USD 25.8 million, and the decision to continue financ ing regional projects and programmes 
beyond the Pilot Programme for Regional Projects and Programmes, launched in May 
2015;  
(h) The cumulative receipts of USD 649.5 million into the Adaptation Trust 
Fund, as at 30 June 2017, comprising USD 197.8 million from t he monetization of certified 
emission reductions, USD 442.4 million from additional contributions and USD 9.3 million 
from investment income earned on the trust fund balance;  
(i) The approval of the Ad Hoc Complaint Handling Mechanism of the 
Adaptation Fund,3 established to promote the fund’s accountability and help respond, 
through a participatory approach, to complaints raised against a project or programme 
financed by the fund;  
                                                           
 1 FCCC/KP/CMP/2017/6.  
 2 Available at http://unfccc.int/meetings/bonn_nov_2017/in -session/items/10494.php . 
 3 See https://www.adaptation -fund.org/wp -content/uploads/2016/12/Ad -Hoc-Complaint -Handling -
Mechanism_final_March2017.pdf .  FCCC/KP/CMP/2017/7/Add. 1 
 3 (j) The adoption by the Adaptation Fund Board of a medium -term strategy for 
the Adapt ation Fund;4 
(k) The approval of 16 single -country project/programme proposals submitted by 
implementing entities, totalling USD 103.1 million, including 6 proposals submitted by 
national implementing entities, to the amount of USD 38.8 million, 5 proposals su bmitted 
by regional implementing entities, to the amount of USD 39.6 million, and 5 proposals 
submitted by multilateral implementing entities, to the amount of USD 24.6 million;  
(l) The contributions received from 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017, amounting to 
USD 97.6 million, from Germany, Italy, Sweden and the Brussels -Capital, Flanders and 
Walloon Regions of Belgium;  
(m) The publication of a gender guidance document5 to assist implementing 
entities in complying with the fund’s gender policy and action plan and in ma instreaming 
gender considerations;  
(n) The 2017 –2020 resource mobilization strategy6 being implemented by the 
Adaptation Fund Board;  
3. Also notes  the total amount of USD 81.4 million in contributions made to the 
Adaptation Fund in 2016, surpassing the fundraisi ng target of the Adaptation Fund Board 
of USD 80 million for the 2016 calendar year;  
4. Welcomes  the financial pledges to the Adaptation Fund made by Germany, Ireland, 
Italy, Sweden and the Walloon Region of Belgium, equivalent to USD 93.3 million;  
5. Notes that with the pledges mentioned in paragraph 4 above, the fundraising target 
of the Adaptation Fund Board of USD 80 million for the 2017 calendar year has been 
surpassed;  
6. Reiterates  its concern7 regarding  the issues related to the sustainability, adequacy 
and predictability of funding for the Adaptation Fund due to the current uncertainty about 
the prices of certified emission reductions;  
7. Encourages  the scaling -up of financial resources, including the provision of 
voluntary support, that is additional to the sh are of proceeds levied on certified emission 
reductions, in order to support the resource mobilization efforts of the Adaptation Fund 
Board with a view to strengthening the Adaptation Fund;  
8. Also encourages the Adaptation Fund Board, in line with its exist ing mandate, to 
continue its consideration of linkages between the Adaptation Fund and other funds, and to 
report on the outcomes thereof to the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of 
the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at its fourteenth session  (December 2018);  
9. Further encourages  the Adaptation Fund Board to implement its medium -term 
strategy ;8 
10. Encourages  the Adaptation Fund Board to continue its deliberations on enhancing 
and streamlining accreditation policies for implementing entities, inclu ding reaccreditation 
of previously accredited entities;  
11. Requests  the Adaptation Fund Board to make available, as part of its annual report, 
information on board meetings and other relevant developments that have taken place after 
the publication of the mai n part of the annual report;  
12. Decides  that the Adaptation Fund shall serve the Paris Agreement subject to and 
consistent with decisions to be taken at the third part of the first session of the Conference 
                                                           
 4 See Adaptati on Fund Board document B.30/5/Rev.1 , available at https://www.adaptation -
fund.org/wp -content/uploads/2017/10/AFB.B.30.5.Rev_.1 -Draft -medium -term-strategy.pdf .  
 5 See https://www.adaptation -fund.org/wp -content/uploads/2017/03/GenderGuidance -Document.pdf .  
 6 See https://www.adaptation -fund.org/wp -
content/uploads/2017/05/AFB_Resource_mobilization_strategy_for_posting.pdf .  
 7 Decision 2/CMP.12, paragraph 6.  
 8 As footnote 4 above.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2017/7/Add.1  
4  of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties  to the Paris Agreement (December 
2018), in line with decision 1/CMA.1, paragraph 11;  
13. Also decides that it will consider whether the Adaptation Fund shall serve the Paris 
Agreement exclusively, under the guidance of and accountable to the Conference of the  
Parties serving as the meeting of  the Parties to the Paris Agreement, following a 
recommendation from the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of  the Parties to 
the Paris Agreement on this matter to the Conference of the Parties serving as the  meeting 
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at its fifteenth session (November 2019);  
14. Notes  the progress of the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris Agreement in 
undertaking the necessary preparatory work to address governance and institutional 
arrangements , safeguards and operating modalities for the Adaptation Fund to serve the 
Paris Agreement, including sources of funding, to be defined by Parties, and looks forward 
to the recommendations thereon from the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris Agreement 
in 201 8; 
15. Recognizes  that the Adaptation Fund should continue to contribute to an enhanced, 
efficient and coherent climate finance architecture.  
13th plenary meeting  
18 November 2017 FCCC/KP/CMP/2017/7/Add.1  
 5   Decision 2/CMP.13  
  Third review of the Adaptation Fund  
The Conference of the  Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Recalling decision s 2/CMP.10 and 1/CMP.12,   
Reiterating the crucial importance of the Adaptation Fund as an essential channel for 
supporting adaptation action and the main promoter of di rect access, together with its focus 
on funding the full costs of concrete adaptation projects and programmes  in developing 
countries,  
Noting with deep concern the continued issues related to the sustainability, adequacy 
and predictability of funding from  the Adaptation Fund, given the current prices of certified 
emission reductions, which affect its ability to fulfil its mandate,  
1. Takes note of the technical paper on the third review of the Adaptation Fund,1 based 
on the terms of reference for the review contained in the annex to decision 1/CMP.12;  
2. Welcomes  the completion of phase 1 of the independent evaluation of the Adaptation 
Fund and looks forward  to phase 2;  
3. Recognizes  the lessons learned and progress made since the second review of the 
Adaptation Fu nd, including initiatives and improvements such as modalities to enable 
enhancement of the direct access modality, the Readiness Programme including its South –
South mentoring channel, a streamlined process for accreditation for small entities and 
guidance on accreditation standards;  
4. Also recognizes  the comparative advantage of the Adaptation Fund, including the 
speed of project approval, the strategic engagement by stakeholders at the subnational level, 
the various institutional benefits, the efficiency of institutional arrangements and the 
enhancement of country ownership in the funding process;  
5. Welcomes  the implementation of mandatory compliance for implementing entities 
with the Adaptation Fund’s environmental and social safeguards and gender policy, whic h 
enhances the effectiveness of the Adaptation Fund;  
6. Notes  the efforts made by the Adaptation Fund Board in enhancing cooperation with 
other funds to ensure coherence and complementarity;   
7. Encourages  the Adaptation Fund Board:  
(a) To consider options for impro vement of efficiency with regard to the 
operation of the Adaptation Fund;  
(b) To continue to engage with subnational actors and the private sector through, 
inter alia, microfinance schemes, weather -based insurance arrangements, involvement with 
local industry  groups and farmers in adaptation projects, and public –private partnerships;  
(c) To consider voluntary tracking of climate finance mobilized, where 
appropriate;  
(d) To continue the efforts to enhance complementarity and coherence with other 
funds both under and ou tside the Convention;  
8. Requests  the Adaptation Fund Board:  
(a) To consider lessons learned from the Adaptation Fund’s engagement with 
private sector stakeholders in adaptation projects at the local level, including in the 
decision -making processes of the Adapta tion Fund and in communications with donors;  
                                                           
 1 FCCC/TP/2017/6.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2017/7/Add.1  
6  (b) To monitor and assess project approval time under the Readiness 
Programme, identifying any linkages of this time to the introduction of the Adaptation 
Fund’s environmental and social policy, and to take measures  to reduce the time, as 
necessary, while continuing to implement its environmental and social safeguards and 
gender policy;  
(c) To continue to provide information on project approval time;  
(d) To continue monitoring the adaptation impacts and results of the Adapt ation 
Fund, including using local and sector -specific metrics;  
(e) To report on progress made on the mandates arising from this decision in the 
future reports of the Adaptation Fund to the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol;  
9. Also requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation, at its session to be held in 
June 2020, to initiate the fourth review of the Adaptation Fund, in accordance with the 
terms of reference contained in the annex to decision 1/CMP.12, or as  amended, and to 
report back to its governing body to be convened in conjunction with the twenty -seventh 
session of the Conference of the Parties (November 2021).  
13th plenary meeting  
18 November 2017  FCCC/KP/CMP/2017/7/Add.1  
 7   Decision 3/CMP.13  
  Guidance relating to the clean development mechanism  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Recalling the provisions of Articles 3 and 12 of the Kyoto Protocol and decision 
1/CMP.6,  
Cognizant of decision 3/CMP.1 and subsequent guidance  provided by the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol 
relating to the clean development mechanism,  
Welcoming the report  for 2016 –2017 of the Executive Board of the clean 
development mechanism,1 
Appreciating  the Executive Board, its panels and working groups and the secretariat 
for the work undertaken in 2017,  
Noting  the contribution to global efforts to address climate change by the clean 
development mechanism, which to date has been responsible for over 7,78 0 project 
activities being registered, 310 programmes of activities being registered and over 1.88 
billion certified emission reductions being issued,2 of which over 124 million have been 
voluntarily cancelled either in national registries or in the clean development mechanism 
registry,  
Also noting decision 1/CP.19, paragraph 5(c), and decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 106, 
on the role of voluntary cancellation of certified emission reductions,  
Further noting  that the regional distribution of registered project a ctivities, 
registered programmes of activities and issuance of certified emission reductions is, 
respectively: for Africa 2.8 per cent, 36.1 per cent and 2.2 per cent; for Asia -Pacific 83.8 
per cent, 47.1 per cent and 84.8 per cent; for Eastern Europe 0.6 per cent, 0.7 per cent and 
0.2 per cent; and for Latin America and the Caribbean 12.8 per cent, 16.1 per cent and 12.8 
per cent,  
Urging Parties to deposit with the Depositary their instruments of acceptance in 
respect of the Doha Amendment3 pursuant to Art icle 20 of the Kyoto Protocol with a view 
to expediting its entry into force,  
1. Requests  the Executive Board of the clean development mechanism to continue to 
simplify the process for the development and approval of standardized baselines and to 
support desi gnated national authorities in developing standardized baselines upon the 
request of the designated national authorities;  
2. Encourages  the Executive Board to continue its cooperation with financial 
institutions in response to decision 6/CMP.11, paragraphs 7 and 8;  
3. Recognizes the support provided to stakeholders in the clean development 
mechanism through the regional collaboration centres, and requests  the Executive Board to 
continue to support clean development mechanism project development via the regional 
collaboration centres and to report back to the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at its fourteenth session (December 2018);  
4. Takes note  that the Executive Board has adopted a two -year business and 
manageme nt plan (2018 –2019);  
                                                           
 1 FCCC/KP/CMP/201 7/5. 
 2 See http://cdm.unfccc.int . 
 3 Decision 1/CMP.8.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2017/7/Add.1  
8  5. Designates  as operational entities those entities that have been accredited and 
provisionally designated as such by the Executive Board to carry out the sector -specific 
validation functions and/or sector -specific verification functions  described in the annex.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2017/7/Add.1  
 9 Annex  
  Designation of operational entities by the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol at its thirteenth session and changes in accreditation 
status of entities during the reportin g period of the Executive 
Board of the clean development mechanism (18 October 2016 
to 22 September 2017)  
[English only]  
 
Name of entity  Sectoral scopes (validation and verification)  
AENOR INTERNACIONAL, S.A.U. (AENOR)a  
(transfer of accreditation from Sp anish Association for 
Standardisation and Certification (AENOR))  1–15 
Bureau Veritas India Pvt. Ltd. (BVI)a 
(transfer of accreditation from Bureau Veritas Certification 
Holding SAS (BVCH))  1–15 
China Quality Certification Center (CQC)b 1–15 
Earthood Ser vices Private Limited (Earthood)c 1, 3–5, 13 and 15  
ERM Certification and Verification Services Limited (ERM CVS)b  1, 3–5, 8–10 and 13  
Foundation for Industrial Development - Management System 
Certification Institute (Thailand) (MASCI)b 1 and 13  
Japan Quality Assurance Organisation (JQA)b 1, 3–5, 10, 13 and 14  
Japan Management Association (JMA)d 1–4, 6, 9 and 14  
Korea Energy Agency (KEA)b  1, 3–5, 7, 9 and 11 –15 
Korean Standards Association (KSA)b 1–5, 9, 10 and 13  
Perry Johnson Registrars Carbon Em issions Services (PJRCES)e 4, 7, 10, 12 and 15  
Re Carbon Gözetim Denetim ve Belgelendirme Limited Sirketi (Re 
Carbon)a (transfer of accreditation from Re -consult Ltd. (Re -
consult))  1–4, 9, 13 and 15  
RINA Services S.p.A. (RINA)f 8 
RINA Services S.p.A. ( RINA)b 1–7, 9–11 and 13 –15 
SGS United Kingdom Limited (SGS)d 1, 4, 7, 10 and 13  
SIRIM QAS INTERNATIONAL SDN.BHD (SIRIM)d 1 and 13  
TÜV Rheinland (China) Ltd. (TÜV Rheinland)d 1–15 
a   Transfer of accreditation from another legal entity.  
b   Accreditation grante d for five years.  
c   Voluntary withdrawal of accreditation; the remaining sectoral scopes are indicated.  
d   Voluntary withdrawal of accreditation in its entirety.  
e   Entity suspended; only the suspended sectoral scopes are indicated.  
f   Withdrawal of accreditation b y the Board; only the withdrawn sectoral scopes are indicated.  
11th plenary meeting  
17 November 2017  FCCC/KP/CMP/2017/7/Add.1  
10  Decision 4/CMP.13  
  Fourth review of the implementation of the framework for 
capacity -building in countries with economies in transition 
under the Kyoto P rotocol  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Recalling decisions 3/CP.7, 3/CP.10, 30/CMP.1 and 11/CMP.8,  
Acknowledging that capacity -building for countries with economies in transition is 
essential to e nable them to implement effectively their commitments under the Kyoto 
Protocol,  
Having considered the information provided by Parties, the submissions received in 
response to the invitations of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Pa rties 
to the Kyoto Protocol and the compilation and synthesis report in support of the fourth review of 
the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in countries with economies in 
transition, as established by decision 3/CP.7 and reaffirmed by  decision 30/CMP.1,  
1. Recognizes  that: 
(a) Significant progress has been made in building the capacity of countries with 
economies in transition to mitigate and adapt to climate change, and that some recipients of 
assistance have started to transfer their own ex pertise, knowledge and lessons learned on 
capacity -building to Parties not included in Annex I to the Convention;  
(b) Parties included in Annex I to the Convention and the Global Environment 
Facility, within its mandate, have provided adequate resources and as sistance for the 
implementation of the framework for capacity -building in countries with economies in 
transition, as established by decision 3/CP.7 and reaffirmed by decision 30/CMP.1 ; 
(c) Support was also provided to countries with economies in transition by 
multilateral development banks and international financial institutions;  
(d) Countries with economies in transition that are currently receiving support, 
notwithstanding the progress made, are in need of further capacity -building, in particular 
for the develop ment and implementation of national low -carbon development strategies 
consistent with their national priorities and with their emission reduction targets;  
2. Reaffirms  that the scope of the needs identified in the framework for capacity -
building in countries with economies in transition established under decisions 3/CP.7 and 
30/CMP.1  and the key factors identified in decision 3/CP.10 remain relevant and continue 
to be the basis for, and guide the implementation of, capacity -building activities in 
countries wit h economies in transition that are currently receiving support;  
3. Invites  Parties included in Annex II to the Convention and other Parties in a position 
to do so, the Global Environment Facility, multilateral and bilateral agencies, international 
organizatio ns, multilateral development banks, international financial institutions and the 
private sector, or any further arrangements, as appropriate and within their mandates, to 
continue to provide support for capacity -building activities in countries with econom ies in 
transition that are currently receiving support;  
4. Decides  to conclude the fourth review and requests  the Subsidiary Body for 
Implementation, at its fifty -second session (June 2020), to initiate the fifth review of the 
implementation of the framework for capacity -building in countries with economies in 
transition under the Kyoto Protocol with a view to completing this review at the sixteenth 
session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol (November 2 020). 
11th plenary meeting  
17 November 2017FCCC/KP/CMP/2017/7/Add.1  
 11   Decision 5/CMP.13  
  Administrative, financial and institutional matters  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Recalling Article 13, paragraph 5, of the Kyoto  Protocol,  
Also recalling paragraph 11 of the financial procedures for the Conference of the 
Parties, which also applies to the Kyoto Protocol,1 
Further recalling decision 22/CP.21, in which the programme budget for the 
biennium 2016 –2017 was approved,  
Taking note  of decision 21/CP.23,  
Having considered the information contained in the documents prepared by the 
secretariat on administrative, financial and institutional matters,2 
I. Budget performance for the biennium 2016 –2017  
1. Takes note  of the information c ontained in the report on budget performance for the 
biennium 2016 –2017 as at 30 June 20173 and the note on the status of contributions to the 
trust funds administered by the secretariat as at 16 October 2017;4  
2. Expresses its appreciation  to Parties that m ade contributions to the core budget in a 
timely manner;  
3. Expresses concern  regarding the high level of outstanding contributions to the core 
budget for the current and previous bienniums, which has resulted in difficulties with cash 
flow;  
4. Strongly urges  Parties that have not made contributions in full to the core budget for 
the current and/or previous bienniums to do so without further delay;  
5. Calls upon  Parties to make their contributions to the core budget for the year 2018 in 
a timely manner, bearing i n mind that contributions are due on 1 January of each year in 
accordance with the financial procedures for the Conference of the Parties ;  
6. Expresses its appreciation  for the contributions to the Trust Fund for Participation in 
the UNFCCC Process and to th e Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities received from 
Parties;  
7. Urges  Parties to further contribute to the Trust Fund for Participation in the 
UNFCCC Process, in order to ensure the widest possible participation in the negotiations in 
2018, and to the Tru st Fund for Supplementary Activities;  
8. Reiterates  its appreciation  to the Government of Germany for its annual voluntary 
contribution to the core budget of EUR 766,938 and its special contribution of EUR 
1,789,522 as Host Government of the secretariat;  
                                                           
 1 Decision 15/CP.1, annex I . 
 2 FCCC/SBI/2017 /13, FCCC/SBI/2017/INF.8, FCCC/SBI/2017 /INF.14  and FCCC/ SBI/2017 /INF.15  
and Add.1 . 
 3 FCCC/SBI/2017/13.  
 4 FCCC/SBI/2017/INF.14.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2017/7/Add.1  
12  II. Audit report and financial statements for 2016  
9. Takes note  of the audit report of the United Nations Board of Auditors5 and the 
financial statements for 2016, which include recommendations, and the comments of the 
secretariat thereon;  
10. Expresses its apprecia tion to the United Nations for arranging the audit of the 
accounts of the Convention;  
11. Also expresses its appreciation  to the auditors for the valuable observations and 
recommendations and the presentation made thereon to Parties;  
12. Urges  the Executive Secre tary to implement the recommendations of the auditors, as 
appropriate.  
12th plenary meeting  
18 November 2017
                                                           
 5 FCCC/SBI/2017/INF.15 and Add.1.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2017/7/Add.1  
 13   Decision 6/CMP.13  
  Programme budget for the biennium 2018 –2019  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Recalling  Article 13, paragraph 5, of the Kyoto Protocol,  
Taking note  of decision 21/CP.23, in particular paragraph 1,  
Having considered  the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2018 –2019 
submitted by the Executive Secretary,1 
1. Endorses  decision 21/CP.23 on the programme budget for the biennium 2018 –2019 
as it applies to the Kyoto Protocol;  
2. Adopts  the indicative scale of contributions for 2018 and 2019 contained in the 
annex, covering 15.0 per cent of the indicative contributions specified in  table 1 of 
decision  21/CP.23;  
3. Invites  all Parties to the Kyoto Protocol to note that contributions to the core budget 
are due on 1 January of each year in accordance with paragraph 8(b) of the financial 
procedures  for the Conference of the Parties, its s ubsidiary bodies and the secretariat ,2 and 
to pay promptly and in full for each of the years 2018 and 2019 the contributions required 
to finance the approved expenditures set out in decision 21/CP.23;  
4. Takes note  of the financing requirements for the clean  development mechanism and 
joint implementation proposed by the Executive Board of the clean development 
mechanism and the Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee, respectively.  
 
                                                           
 1 FCCC/SBI/2017/4.   
 2 Decision 15/CP.1, annex I.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2017/7/Add.1  
14  Annex  
  Indicative scale of contributions from Parties to the Kyoto 
Prot ocol for the biennium 2018 –2019  
[English only]  
 
Party  United Nations scale of 
assessments for 2018  Kyoto Protocol adjusted  
scale for 2018  Kyoto Protocol adjusted  
scale for 2019  
Afghanistan  0.006  0.008  0.008  
Albania  0.008  0.010  0.010  
Algeria  0.161  0.209 0.209  
Angola  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Antigua and Barbuda  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Argentina  0.892  1.159  1.159  
Armenia  0.006  0.008  0.008  
Australia  2.337  3.036  3.036  
Austria  0.720  0.935  0.935  
Azerbaijan  0.060  0.078  0.078  
Bahamas  0.014  0.018  0.018  
Bahrain  0.044 0.057  0.057  
Bangladesh  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Barbados  0.007  0.009  0.009  
Belarus  0.056  0.073  0.073  
Belgium  0.885  1.150  1.150  
Belize  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Benin  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Bhutan  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Bolivia (Plurinational State of)  0.012  0.016  0.016  
Bosnia and Herzegovina  0.013  0.017  0.017  
Botswana  0.014  0.018  0.018  
Brazil  3.823  4.966  4.966  
Brunei Darussalam  0.029  0.038  0.038  
Bulgaria  0.045  0.058  0.058  
Burkina Faso  0.004  0.005  0.005  
Burundi  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Cabo Verde  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Cambod ia 0.004  0.005  0.005  
Cameroon  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Central African Republic  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Chad  0.005  0.006  0.006  
Chile  0.399  0.518  0.518  
China  7.921  10.289  10.289  
Colombia  0.322  0.418  0.418  
Comoros  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Congo  0.006  0.008  0.008  
Cook I slands  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Costa Rica  0.047  0.061  0.061  
Côte d’Ivoire  0.009  0.012  0.012  
Croatia  0.099  0.129  0.129  
Cuba  0.065  0.084  0.084  
Cyprus  0.043  0.056  0.056  
Czechia  0.344  0.447  0.447  
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea  0.005  0.006  0.006  
Democr atic Republic of the Congo  0.008  0.010  0.010  
Denmark  0.584  0.759  0.759  FCCC/KP/CMP/2017/7/Add.1  
 15 Party  United Nations scale of 
assessments for 2018  Kyoto Protocol adjusted  
scale for 2018  Kyoto Protocol adjusted  
scale for 2019  
Djibouti  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Dominica  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Dominican Republic  0.046  0.060  0.060  
Ecuador  0.067  0.087  0.087  
Egypt  0.152  0.197  0.197  
El Salvador  0.014  0.018  0.018  
Equato rial Guinea  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Eritrea  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Estonia  0.038  0.049  0.049  
Ethiopia  0.010  0.013  0.013  
European Union  2.500  2.500  2.500  
Fiji 0.003  0.004  0.004  
Finland  0.456  0.592  0.592  
France  4.859  6.311  6.311  
Gabon  0.017  0.022  0.022  
Gambia  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Georgia  0.008  0.010  0.010  
Germany  6.389  8.299  8.299  
Ghana  0.016  0.021  0.021  
Greece  0.471  0.612  0.612  
Grenada  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Guatemala  0.028  0.036  0.036  
Guinea  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Guinea -Bissau  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Guyana  0.002  0.003 0.003  
Haiti  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Honduras  0.008  0.010  0.010  
Hungary  0.161  0.209  0.209  
Iceland  0.023  0.030  0.030  
India  0.737  0.957  0.957  
Indonesia  0.504  0.655  0.655  
Iran (Islamic Republic of)  0.471  0.612  0.612  
Iraq 0.129  0.168  0.168  
Ireland  0.335  0.435 0.435  
Israel  0.430  0.559  0.559  
Italy 3.748  4.868  4.868  
Jamaica  0.009  0.012  0.012  
Japan  9.680  12.573  12.573  
Jordan  0.020  0.026  0.026  
Kazakhstan  0.191  0.248  0.248  
Kenya  0.018  0.023  0.023  
Kiribati  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Kuwait  0.285  0.370  0.370  
Kyrgy zstan  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Lao People’s Democratic Republic  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Latvia  0.050  0.065  0.065  
Lebanon  0.046  0.060  0.060  
Lesotho  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Liberia  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Libya  0.125  0.162  0.162  
Liechtenstein  0.007  0.009  0.009  
Lithuania  0.072 0.094  0.094  
Luxembourg  0.064  0.083  0.083  
Madagascar  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Malawi  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Malaysia  0.322  0.418  0.418  
Maldives  0.002  0.003  0.003  FCCC/KP/CMP/2017/7/Add.1  
16  Party  United Nations scale of 
assessments for 2018  Kyoto Protocol adjusted  
scale for 2018  Kyoto Protocol adjusted  
scale for 2019  
Mali  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Malta  0.016  0.021  0.021  
Marshall Islands  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Mauritania  0.002 0.003  0.003  
Mauritius  0.012  0.016  0.016  
Mexico  1.435  1.864  1.864  
Micronesia (Federated States of)  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Monaco  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Mongolia  0.005  0.006  0.006  
Montenegro  0.004  0.005  0.005  
Morocco  0.054  0.070  0.070  
Mozambique  0.004  0.005  0.005  
Myanmar  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Namibia  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Nauru  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Nepal  0.006  0.008  0.008  
Netherlands  1.482  1.925  1.925  
New Zealand  0.268  0.348  0.348  
Nicaragua  0.004  0.005  0.005  
Niger  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Nigeria  0.209  0.271  0.271  
Niue 0.001  0.001  0.001  
Norway  0.849  1.103  1.103  
Oman  0.113  0.147  0.147  
Pakistan  0.093  0.121  0.121  
Palau  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Panama  0.034  0.044  0.044  
Papua New Guinea  0.004  0.005  0.005  
Paraguay  0.014  0.018  0.018  
Peru 0.136  0.177  0.177  
Philippines  0.165 0.214  0.214  
Poland  0.841  1.092  1.092  
Portugal  0.392  0.509  0.509  
Qatar  0.269  0.349  0.349  
Republic of Korea  2.039  2.648  2.648  
Republic of Moldova  0.004  0.005  0.005  
Romania  0.184  0.239  0.239  
Russian Federation  3.088  4.011  4.011  
Rwanda  0.002  0.003  0.003 
Saint Kitts and Nevis  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Saint Lucia  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Samoa  0.001  0.001  0.001  
San Marino  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Sao Tome and Principe  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Saudi Arabia  1.146  1.489  1.489  
Senegal  0.005  0.006  0.006  
Serbia  0.032  0.042  0.042  
Seychelles  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Sierra Leone  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Singapore  0.447  0.581  0.581  
Slovakia  0.160  0.208  0.208  
Slovenia  0.084  0.109  0.109  
Solomon Islands  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Somalia  0.001  0.001  0.001  
South Africa  0.364  0.473  0.473  
Spain  2.443  3.865  3.865  FCCC/KP/CMP/2017/7/Add.1  
 17 Party  United Nations scale of 
assessments for 2018  Kyoto Protocol adjusted  
scale for 2018  Kyoto Protocol adjusted  
scale for 2019  
Sri Lanka  0.031  3.173  3.173  
Sudan  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Suriname  0.006  0.008  0.008  
Swaziland  0.002  0.003  0.003  
Sweden  0.956  1.242  1.242  
Switzerland  1.140  1.481  1.481  
Syrian Arab Republic  0.024 0.031  0.031  
Tajikistan  0.004  0.005  0.005  
Thailand  0.291  0.378  0.378  
The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia  0.007  0.009  0.009  
Timor -Leste  0.003  0.004  0.004  
Togo  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Tonga  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Trinidad and Tobago  0.034  0.044  0.044  
Tunisia  0.028  0.036  0.036  
Turkey  1.018  1.322  1.322  
Turkmenistan  0.026  0.034  0.034  
Tuvalu  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Uganda  0.009  0.012  0.012  
Ukraine  0.103  0.134  0.134  
United Arab Emirates  0.604  0.785  0.785  
United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland  4.463 5.797  5.797  
United Republic of Tanzania  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Uruguay  0.079  0.103  0.103  
Uzbekistan  0.023  0.030  0.030  
Vanuatu  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)  0.571  0.742  0.742  
Viet Nam  0.058  0.075  0.075  
Yemen  0.010  0.013  0.013  
Zambia  0.007  0.009  0.009  
Zimbabwe  0.004  0.005  0.005  
Total  77.572  100.000  100.000  
a   Pursuant to decision 15/CP.1, annex, paragraph 7(a), the UNFCCC scale of indicative contributions may be adjusted following 
the adoption by the United Nations General Assem bly of the United Nations scale of assessments for the period 2019 –2021.  
12th plenary meeting  
18 November 2017FCCC/KP/CMP/2017/7/Add.1  
18    Decision 7/CMP.13  
Budget for the international transaction log and a 
methodology for the collection of its fees for the biennium 
2018–2019  
 The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
 Recalling  Article 13, paragraph 5, of the Kyoto Protocol,  
 Also recalling decisions 11/CMP.3, 10/CMP.5, 9/CMP.6, 8/CMP.8 and 8/CMP.11,  
 Recognizing  the importance of s ufficient and stable funding for the international 
transaction log,  
 Also recognizing the importance of the proper functioning of the international 
transaction log for the Parties listed in Annex B to the Kyoto Protocol as contained in 
annex  I to decision 1/CMP.8 (hereinafter in this decision referred to as Parties),  
1. Approves  the budget for the international transaction log for the biennium 2018 –
2019, amounting to EUR 5,204,520, for the purposes specified in the proposed budget for 
the international transac tion log;1 
2. Decides  to maintain the level of the working capital reserve at 8.3 per cent of the 
estimated expenditure for the Trust Fund for the International Transaction Log;  
3. Authorizes  the Executive Secretary to draw EUR 2.5 million from unspent balances 
of the Trust Fund for the International Transaction Log from previous financial periods to 
cover part of the budget for the biennium 2018 –2019;  
4. Also authorizes  the Executive Secretary to draw funds from unspent balances of the 
Trust Fund for the Internatio nal Transaction Log from previous financial periods to cover 
the potential shortfall in fees due to the disconnection of Parties from the international 
transaction log;  
5. Notes  that the action referred to in paragraph 3 above is exceptional and is needed to 
disburse the significant unspent funds, and recognizes  that fees for the operation of the 
international transaction log are to be levied as necessary in future bienniums;  
6. Also notes  that any unspent balances of the Trust Fund for the International 
Transact ion Log from previous financial periods remaining after the actions referred to in 
paragraphs 3 and 4 above could be used to cover the budget of the international transaction 
log for future bienniums;  
7. Requests  the administrator of the international transac tion log to disclose in its 
annual reports the unspent balance of the Trust Fund for the International Transaction Log 
from the previous biennium as at the time of publication of the annual report;  
8. Adopts  the scale of fees for the international transaction  log for the biennium 2018 –
2019 as contained in the annex;  
9. Decides  that fees for the international transaction log paid by a Party for the 
biennium 2018 –2019 shall be calculated by multiplying the scale of fees for that Party 
contained in the annex by the budget for the international transaction log for the biennium 
2018 –2019 and adjusted for Parties currently not connected to the international transaction 
log, taking into account the amount drawn from unspent balances as set out in paragraph 3 
above, with the balance of fees for the first year of the biennium being equal to the balance 
of fees for the second year of the biennium, as contained in the annex;  
                                                           
 1 FCCC/SBI/2017/4/Add. 2.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2017/7/Add.1  
 19 10. Requests  the Executive Secretary to notify Parties connected to the international 
transaction log in t he biennium 2018 –2019 of the annual fees, calculated in accordance 
with paragraph 9 above, as early as possible and at least four months in advance of the 
relevant calendar year, where possible;  
11. Decides  that, if a Party connects to the international transa ction log for the first time 
or reconnects to it, the scale of fees for that Party shall be that contained in the annex, or, 
for Parties not listed in the table contained in the annex, shall be made equal to 130 per cent 
of their Kyoto Protocol adjusted sc ale for the relevant biennium;  
12. Also decides  that fees paid by a Party that connects to the international transaction 
log for the first time or reconnects to it shall be deducted from the resource requirement for 
activities relating to the international tra nsaction log in the next biennium;  
13. Further decides  that fees paid by a Party that connects to the international 
transaction log for the first time or reconnects to it during the biennium 2018 –2019 shall be 
proportioned for the period between the date of co nnection or reconnection of its registry 
and the end of the biennium, except for the period for which the fees were already paid;  
14. Decides  that, where a Party disconnects during the biennium 2018 –2019, the Party 
shall cover the fees for the full year in whi ch the disconnection took place, and that, if the 
disconnection takes place in the first year of the biennium and the Party does not reconnect 
in the second year of the biennium, fees for the second year of the biennium shall not apply;  
15. Also decides  that, where a Party disconnected prior to the biennium 2018 –2019, the 
fees shall not apply until the Party reconnects  to the international transaction log;   
16. Authorizes the international transaction log administrator to disconnect the registry 
of a Party from the  international transaction  log in the event of the non -payment of its fees 
by that Party, provided that such disconnection shall not be effected earlier than four 
months after the beginning of the relevant calendar year, at least two reminders have 
already  been given to the Party and consultations have taken place with the Party concerned 
prior to the final reminder;  
17. Requests the international transaction log administrator to provide, in its annual 
reports for 2018 and 2019, information on transactions of K yoto Protocol units;  
18. Also requests  the international transaction  log administrator to publish, in its annual 
reports, a table listing the scale and the level of fees and the status of payments for all 
Parties connected to the international transaction log;  
19. Further requests the Subsidiary Body for Implementation, at its fiftieth session 
(June 2019), to recommend a methodology  for the collection of international transaction 
log fees in the biennium 2020 –2021 for consideration and adoption by the Conference of  
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at its fifteenth session 
(November 2019).  FCCC/KP/CMP/2017/7/Add.1  
20  Annex  
  Fees for the international transaction log for the biennium 2018 –2019  
[English only]  
Party  Scale of fees for 
2018–2019   
(%) Calcula ted fees for 
2018 before credit  
from unspent balances  
(EUR)  Calculated fees for 
2019 before credit from 
unspent balances  
(EUR)  Balance of fees for 
2018 after credit from 
unspent balances  
(EUR)  Balance of fees for  
2019 after credit from 
unspent balances  
(EUR)  
Australia  2.841    75 960    75 960    39 472    39 472  
Austria  1.588    42 443    42 443    22 055    22 055  
Belarusa 0.073  -    - - - 
Belgium  1.973    52 748    52 748    27 410    27 410  
Bulgaria  0.036     963    963    500    500 
Croatia  0.079    2 108    2 108    1 095    1 095  
Cyprus  0.061    1 639    1 639     852    852 
Czechia  0.503    13 454    13 454    6 991    6 991  
Denmark  1.323    35 365    35 365    18 377    18 377  
Estonia  0.028     755    755    392    392 
European Union  2.685    71 770    71 770    37 29 5   37 295  
Finland  1.009    26 985    26 985    14 023    14 023  
France  10.667    285 182    285 182    148 194    148 194  
Germany  15.35    410 402    410 402    213 266    213 266  
Greece  1.065    28 469    28 469    14 794    14 794  
Hungary  0.437    11 684    11 684    6 072    6 072  
Iceland  0.737    19 699    19 699    10 237    10 237  
Ireland  0.797    21 313    21 313    11 075    11 075  
Italy 9.090    242 999    242 999    126 274    126 274  
Japan  14.939    399 369    399 369    207 531    207 531  
Kazakhstana 0.157  -    - - - 
Latvia 0.032     859    859    446    446 
Liechtenstein  0.188    5 022    5 022    2 610    2 610  
Lithuania  0.055    1 483    1 483     771    771 
Luxembourg  0.153    4 086    4 086    2 123    2 123  
Malta  0.021     572    572    297    297 
Monaco  0.181    4 840    4 840   2 515    2 515  
Netherlands  3.352    89 622    89 622    46 572    46 572  
New Zealand  0.961    25 684    25 684    13 347    13 347  
Norway  2.319    61 986    61 986    32 211    32 211  
Poland  0.896    23 941    23 941    12 441    12 441  
Portugal  0.943    25 216    25 216    13 103    13 103  
Romania  0.125    3 331    3 331    1 731    1 731  
Russian Federationa 2.743  -    - - - 
Slovakia  0.113    3 019    3 019    1 569    1 569  
Slovenia  0.171    4 580    4 580    2 380    2 380  
Spain  5.311    141 979    141 979    73 779    73 779 
Sweden  1.917    51 238    51 238    26 626    26 626  
Switzerland  2.760    73 774    73 774    38 337    38 337  
Ukraine  0.745    19 907    19 907    10 345    10 345  
United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland  11.888    317 814    317 814    165 152    165 152 
Fees   2 602 260  2 602 260  1 352 260  1 352 260  
Credit from unspent balances from 
previous financial periods  - - 1 250 000  1 250 000  
Total   2 602 260  2 602 260  2 602 260  2 602 260  
a   Parties currently not connected to the international transaction log. These Parties will be subject to the international transaction log 
fees in case of connection or reconnection to the international transaction log, in accordance with paragraphs 11 –13 of this document.  
12th plenary meeting  
18 November 2017FCCC/KP/CMP/2017/7/Add.1  
 21   Resolution 1/C MP.13  
  Expression of gratitude to the Government of the Federal 
Republic of Germany and the people of the city of Bonn  
 Resolution submitted by Fiji  
 The Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the  Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement , 
 Having met in Bonn from 6 to 17 November 2017 at the seat of the secretariat,  
1. Express their profound gratitude to the Government of the Federal  Republic of 
Germany for having made it possible for the twenty -third session of the Conference of the 
Parties, the thirteenth session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the second part of the f irst session of the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement to be held in Bonn;  
2. Request the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany to convey to the city 
and people of Bonn the gratitude of the Conferenc e of the Parties, the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement for the hospitality 
and warmth extended to the partic ipants.  
12th plenary meeting  
18 November 2017  
     
 
GE.19-03296 (E) 

Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting  
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  
  Report of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol on its fourteenth 
session, held in Katowice  from 2 to 15 Dece mber 201 8 
Addendum  
Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at its fourteenth session  
Contents  
  Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  
Decision   Page 
  1/CMP.1 4 Matters relating to the Adaptation Fund  ................................ ...........    2 
  2/CMP.1 4 Report of the Adaptation Fund Board  ................................ ...............    3 
  3/CMP.1 4 Modalities, work programme and functions under th e Kyoto  
Protocol of the forum on the impact of the implementation of  
response measures  ................................ ................................ ............    5 
  4/CMP.1 4 Guidance relating to the clean development mechanism  ..................    6 
  5/CMP.1 4 Administrative, financial and institutional matters  ...........................    8 
   
  Resolution  
  1/CMP.1 4 Expression of gratitude to the Government of the Republic of  
Poland and the people of the city of Katowice  ................................ .   10 
  United Nations  FCCC /KP/CMP/201 8/8/Add.1  
  
Distr.: General  
19 March  2019  
 
Original: English  
FCCC/KP/CMP/201 8/8/Add.1  
2  Decision 1/CMP.1 4 
  Matters relating to the Adaptation Fund  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
1. Takes note of decision 13/CMA.1, whereby the Conference of the Parties serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement decided that the Adaptation Fund shal l 
serve the Paris Agreement under the guidance of, and be accountable to, the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  with respect to all 
matters relating to the Paris Agreement, effective 1 January 2019;  
2. Deci des that the Adaptation Fund shall exclusively serve the Paris Agreement and 
shall no longer serve the Kyoto Protocol once the share of proceeds under Article 6, 
paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreement becomes available;  
3. Also decides , pursuant to paragraph 2 above, that the Adaptation Fund shall continue 
to receive the share of proceeds, if available, from activities under Articles 6, 12 and 17 of 
the Kyoto Protocol;  
4. Further decides  to ensure that developing country Parties and developed country 
Parties that a re Parties to the Paris Agreement are eligible for membership on the Adaptation 
Fund Board;  
5. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation, at its fiftieth session (June 2019), 
to consider the matter referred to in paragraph 4 above, and to forward a reco mmendation to 
the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol for 
consideration at its fifteenth session ( December  2019);  
6. Also requests  the Adaptation Fund Board to consider the rules of procedure of the 
Board, the arrangements of the Adaptation Fund with respect to the Paris Agreement and any 
other matter so as to ensure the Adaptation Fund serves the Paris Agreement smoothly; to 
conside r the implications of the Adaptation Fund receiving the share of proceeds from 
activities under Articles 6, 12 and 17 of the Kyoto Protocol when the Adaptation Fund serves 
the Paris Agreement; and to make recommendations to the Conference of the Parties se rving 
as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at its fifteenth session with a view to the 
recommendations being forwarded to the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of 
the Parties to the Paris Agreement for consideration at its sec ond session ( December  2019).  
8th plenary meeting  
15 Dece mber 201 8 FCCC/KP/CMP/201 8/8/Add.1  
 3   Decision 2/CMP.1 4 
  Report of the Adaptation Fund Board  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Recalling  decisions 1/CMP.3, 1/CMP.4, 2/CMP.10, 1/CMP.11 and 1/CMP.13,  
1. Takes note of the annual report of the Adaptation Fund Board, including its addendum, 
and the information contained therein;1 
2. Notes the following information, actions and decisions relating to the Adaptation Fund 
Board presented in the report referred to in paragraph 1 above:  
(a) The accreditation of 28 national implementing entities for accessing resources 
from the Adaptation Fund directly;  
(b) Cumulative project and programme approvals reaching USD 476.8 million as 
at 30 June 2018;  
(c) Funds available for new funding approvals amounting to USD 225.7 million 
as at 30 June 2018;  
(d) The value of proj ects and programmes in the active pipeline estimated at over 
USD 270 million as at 30 June 2018;  
(e) The approval, under the pilot phase of the readiness support package, of the 
first readiness support package grant (in July 2018), amounting to USD 100,000, to  provide 
tailored technical assistance and capacity -building through a suite of tools for supporting 
developing country entities in accessing the Fund’s resources through direct access;  
(f) The approval of funding decisions for readiness grants amounting to 
USD 175,000, consisting of USD 150,000 in South –South cooperation grants and a 
USD  25,000 technical assistance grant for the environmental and social safeguards policy 
and the gender policy;  
(g) The cumulative receipts of USD 753.5 million into the Adaptation Tr ust Fund, 
as at 30 June 2018, comprising USD 199.4 million from the monetization of certified 
emission reductions, USD 538.3 million from additional contributions and USD 15.8 million 
from investment income earned on the trust fund balance;  
(h) The adoption, b y the Board, of the first medium -term strategy for the Fund for 
the period 2018 –2022 (in October 2017) and of an implementation plan for the strategy (in 
March 2018);  
(i) The approval of eight single -country project/programme proposals submitted 
by implementin g entities, totalling USD 39.0 million, including four proposals submitted by 
national implementing entities amounting to USD 10.3 million, one proposal submitted by a 
regional implementing entity to the amount of USD 10.0 million, and three proposals 
subm itted by multilateral implementing entities to the amount of USD 18.6 million;  
(j) The approval of two regional (multi -country) projects, with total funding of 
USD 19 million, and the decision to provide funding up to the amount of USD 60 million for 
regional project and programme proposals in fiscal year 2019 (1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019);  
(k) The contributions received from 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018, amounting to 
USD 95.9 million, from Germany, Ireland, Italy and Sweden, and the Brussels -Capital and 
Walloon Reg ions of Belgium;  
3. Also notes  the total amount of USD 95.9 million in contributions made to the 
Adaptation Fund in 2017, surpassing the fundraising target of the Adaptation Fund Board of 
USD 80 million for the 2017 calendar year;  
                                                           
 1 FCCC/KP/CMP/2018/4  and Add.1, as requested in decision 1/CMP.13, paragraph 11.  FCCC/KP/CMP/201 8/8/Add.1  
4  4. Welcomes  the financial pledg es to the Adaptation Fund made by the European Union, 
France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, New Zealand  and Sweden, and the Brussels -Capital and 
Walloon Regions of Belgium, equivalent to USD 129.0 million;  
5. Notes that, with the pledges referred to in paragraph 4  above, the fundraising target of 
the Adaptation Fund Board of USD 90 million for the 2018 calendar year has been surpassed;  
6. Reiterates  its concern regarding  the issues related to the sustainability, adequacy and 
predictability of funding for the Adaptatio n Fund due to the current uncertainty about the 
prices of certified emission reductions;2 
7. Also reiterates the encouragement of the scaling  up of financial resources, including 
the provision of voluntary support, that are additional to the share of proceeds  levied on 
certified emission reductions, in order to support the resource mobilization efforts of the 
Adaptation Fund Board with a view to strengthening the Adaptation Fund;3  
8. Welcomes  with appreciation  the Adaptation Fund Board’s consideration of and report 
on linkages to other funds to ensure coherence and complementarity;4 
9. Encourages  the Adaptation Fund Board to continue, in line with its existing mandate, 
its consideration of linkages between the Ada ptation Fund and other funds;  
10. Also encourages  the Adaptation Fund Board to continue its efforts to enhance 
complementarity and coherence with other funds both under and outside the Convention, 
including to better align processes and leverage financing;  
11. Requests  the Adaptation Fund Board to report on any outcomes related to 
paragraphs  9 and 10 above to the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at its fifteenth session ( December  2019).   
8th plenary meeting  
15 December 2018  
                                                           
 2 Decisions 2/CMP.12, paragraph 6, and 1/CMP.13, paragraph 6.  
 3 Decision 1/CMP.13, paragraph 7.  
 4 FCCC/KP/CMP/2018/4, paragraphs 45 –56, and FCCC/KP/CMP/2018/4/Add.1, paragraph 18.  FCCC/KP/CMP/201 8/8/Add.1  
 5   Decision 3 /CMP.14  
  Modalities, work programme and functions under the Kyoto 
Protocol of the forum on the impact of the implementation of 
response measures  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
 Recalling  Article 4 of the Convention,  
 Also recalling Article 2 and Article 3, paragraph 14, of the Kyoto Protocol,  
 Reaffirming  Article 4, paragraph 15, of the Paris Agreement,  
 Recalling  decisions 1/CP.16, 2/CP.17, 8/CP.17, 1/CP.21, 11/CP.21 and  5/CMP.7, 
paragraph 4,  
 Recognizing  that Parties may be affec ted not only by climate change but also by the 
impacts of the measures taken in response to it,  
 Acknowledging  that there are both positive and negative impacts associated with 
measures taken in response to climate change,  
 Also acknowledging  that respons e measures should be understood in the broader 
context of the transition towards low greenhouse gas emissions and climate -resilient 
development,  
 Reaffirming  that Parties should cooperate to promote a supportive and inclusive 
international economic system that will lead to sustainable economic growth and 
development in all Parties,  
1. Acknowledges  that the existing forum on the impact of the implementation of response 
measures serves the Kyoto Protocol in relation to matters under the Kyoto Protocol;  
2. Adopts the modalities, work programme and functions of the forum on  the impact of 
the implementation of response measures contained in the annex  to decision 7/CMA.1 for 
the work of the forum under the Kyoto Protocol;   
3. Acknowledges that there is one single forum th at covers the work of the Conference 
of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement on all matters rel ating to the impact of the implementation of response measures;  
4. Affirms that the forum shall continue to report to the Conference of the Parties serving 
as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol in respect of matters falling under 
Article  2, paragraph 3, and Article 3, paragraph 14, of the Kyoto Protocol, where the forum 
requires the guidance of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties 
to the Kyoto Protocol.  
6th plenary meeting  
13 December 2018  FCCC/KP/CMP/201 8/8/Add.1  
6  Decision 4 /CMP.14  
  Guidance relating to the clean development mechanism  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to  the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Recalling the provisions of Articles 3 and 12 of the Kyoto Protocol,  
Also recalling  decision 3/CMP.1 and subsequent guidance provided by the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol relating  
to the clean development mechanism,  
Acknowledging the contribution to global efforts to address climate change by the 
clean development mechanism, which as at 2 December 2018 had been responsible for over 
7,806 project activities being registered, 316 pro grammes of activities being registered and 
over 1.97 billion certified emission reductions being issued, of which over  154 million had 
been voluntarily cancelled either in national registries or in the clean development 
mechanism registry,  
Noting decision 1/CP.19, paragraph 5(c), and decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 106, on 
the role of voluntary cancellation of certified emission reductions,  
I. General  
1. Welcomes  the report for 2017 –2018 of the Executive Board of the clean development 
mechanism;  
2. Appreciates  the work  undertaken over the past year by the Executive Board, its panels 
and the secretariat to oversee the implementation of the mechanism and to maintain 
stakeholder engagement in its operations;  
3. Designates  as operational entities those entities that have been accredited and 
provisionally designated as such by the Executive Board to carry out the sector -specific 
validation functions and/or sector -specific verification functions described in the annex;  
II. Operation and oversight of the clean development 
mechanism  
4. Encourages  the Executive Board to review methodological approaches for calculating 
emission reductions from project activities, resulting in the reduced use of non -renewable 
biomass in households;  
5. Requests the Executive Board and the secretariat to ensure th e efficient and prudent 
use of resources of the Trust Fund for the Clean Development Mechanism to the end of the 
true-up period for the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol, and to present a 
comprehensive report to the Conference of the Parties s erving as the meeting of the Parties 
to the Kyoto Protocol at its fifteenth session ( December  2019) on the present financial 
situation of the clean development mechanism and the foreseen budgets for activities until 
the end of 2023.  FCCC/KP/CMP/201 8/8/Add.1  
 7 Annex  
Designation of operational entities by the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol at its fourteenth session  
[English only]  
 
Name of entity  Sectoral scopes (validation and 
verification)  
Bureau Veritas India Pvt. Ltd. (BVI)a 1–5, 7–10 and 12 –15 
CEPREI certification body (CEPREI)a 1–5, 8–10, 13 and 15  
EPIC Sustainability Services Pvt. Ltd. (EPIC)a 1–16 
GHD Limited (GHD)a 1, 4, 5, 8 –10, 12 and 13  
LGAI Technological Center, S.A. (LGAI Tech. Center S.A )a 1, 3 and 13  
Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. (LRQA)a 1–3, 7 and 13  
Perry Johnson Registrars Carbon Emissions Services (PJRCES)b 4, 7, 10, 12 and 15  
Perry Johnson Registrars Carbon Emissions Services (PJRCES)c 1–3, 9 and 13  
Perry Johnson Registrars Carbon Emissions S ervices (PJRCES)d 1–3, 9 and 13  
Shenzhen CTI International Certification Co., Ltd (CTI)a 1–15 
TÜV NORD CERT GmbH (TÜV NORD)a 1–16 
TÜV SÜD South Asia Private Limited (TÜV SÜD)a 1, 3–5, 7, 10, 11 and 13 –15 
a   Accreditation granted for five years.  
b   Withdrawal  of accreditation by the Executive Board of the clean development mechanism; only the 
withdrawn sectoral scopes are indicated.  
c   Entity provisionally suspended; only the suspended sectoral scopes are indicated.  
d   Withdrawal of accreditation in its entirety by the Executive Board of the clean development mechanism; the 
withdrawn sectoral scopes are indicated.  
6th plenary meeting  
13 December 2018FCCC/KP/CMP/201 8/8/Add.1  
8    Decision 5 /CMP.14  
  Administrative, financial and institutional matters  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Recalling Article 13, paragraph 5, of the Kyoto Protocol,  
Also recalling the financial procedures for the Conference of the Parties, which also 
apply to the Kyoto Protocol,1 
Taking note  of decision 18 /CP.24,  
Having  considered  the information contained in the documents prepared by the 
secretariat on administrative, financial and institutional matters,2 
Noting that notifications to Parties of their contributions for 2019 were sent to them 
on 30 September 2018,  
I. Budget performance for the biennium 2018 –2019  
1. Takes note  of the information contained in the report on budget performance f or the 
biennium 2018 –2019 as at 30 June 20183 and the note on the status of contributions to the 
trust funds administered by the secretariat as at 16 November 2018;4 
2. Expresses its appreciation  to Parties that made contributions to the core budget in a 
timely manner;  
3. Expresses concern  regarding the high level of outstanding contributions to the core 
budget for the current and previous bienniums, which has resulted in difficulties with cash 
flow and the effective implementation of activities;  
4. Strongly urges  Parties that have not made contributions in full to the core budget for 
the current and/or previous bienniums to do so without further delay;  
5. Calls upon  Parties to make their contributions to the core budget for 2019 in a timely 
manner, bearing in mind that contributions are due on 1 January of each year in accordance 
with the financial procedures for the Conference of the Parties;  
6. Expresses its appreciat ion for the contributions to the Trust Fund for Participation in 
the UNFCCC Process and to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities received from 
Parties, including those contributions that allow for greater flexibility in allocation;  
7. Urges  Parties to f urther contribute to the Trust Fund for Participation in the UNFCCC 
Process in order to ensure the widest possible participation in the negotiations in 2019, and 
to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities;  
8. Reiterates its appreciation  to the Government of Germany for its annual voluntary 
contribution to the core budget of EUR 766,938 and its special contribution  of 
EUR  1,789,522 as Host Government of the secretariat;  
9. Requests  the Executive Secretary to take further measures to recover outstanding 
contrib utions and encourages  Parties to pay those outstanding contributions as soon as 
possible;  
                                                           
 1 Decisi on 15/CP.1, annex I . 
 2 FCCC/SBI/2018/16 and Add.1 and 2, FCCC/SBI/2018/INF.11 and Add.1 , FCCC/SBI/2018/INF.12 , 
FCCC/SBI/2018/INF.16 , FCCC/SBI/2018/INF.17 , FCCC/SBI/2018/INF.18  and 
FCCC/SBI/2018/INF.19.  
 3 FCCC/SBI/2018/16 and Add.1 and 2. 
 4 FCCC/SBI/2018/INF.12.  FCCC/KP/CMP/201 8/8/Add.1  
 9 II. Audit report and financial statements for 2017  
10. Takes note  of the audit report of the United Nations Board of Auditors5 and the 
financial statements for 2017, which include recommendations, and the comments of the 
secretariat thereon;  
11. Expresses its appreciation  to the United Nations for arranging the audit of the 
accounts of the Convention;  
12. Also expresses its appreciation  to the auditors for the valuable observations and 
recommendations and the presentation made thereon to Parties;  
13. Requests  the Executive Secretary to implement the recommendations of the auditors, 
as appropriate, in particular those related to outstanding co ntributions and the policies on 
hiring consultants and individual contractors, and to update Parties on progress in the next 
audit report;  
III. Other budgetary matters  
14. Also r equests  the Executive Secretary to present the outcome of its review of the 
secretariat ’s operations and structure, including on the synergy and prioritization of its 
activities, with a view to reducing redundancies and increasing cost -efficiency, in the context 
of the programme budget for 2020 –2021;  
15. Further requests  the Executive Secretary  to prepare, regularly update and publish 
before each session of the subsidiary bodies brief reports on standard costs and, if available, 
options for reducing the cost of activities where practicable;  
16. Requests  the Executive Secretary  to provide budgetary c ost implications in pre -
session documents if they include suggestions for new mandates to the secretariat and if 
sufficient information is available on the details of the proposed activities;  
17. Also r equests  the Executive Secretary  to provide any other such information to Parties 
as may be required to ensure that the budgetary implications of decisions and conclusions, 
including those proposed in pre -session documents, can be taken into account in advance of 
decision -making.  
7th plenary meeting  
14 December 2018  
                                                           
 5 FCCC/SBI/2018/INF.11 and Add.1.  FCCC/KP/CMP/201 8/8/Add.1  
10    Resolution 1/CMP.14  
  Expression of gratitude to the Government of the Republic of 
Poland and the people of the city of Katowice  
 Resolution submitted by Fiji  
  The Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement , 
  Having met in Katowice from 2 to 14 December 2018,  
1. Express their profound gratitude to the Government of the Republic of Poland for 
having made it possible for the twenty -fourth session of the Conference of the Parties, the 
fourteenth session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the m eeting of the Parties to 
the Kyoto Protocol and the third part of the first session of the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement to be held in Katowice;  
2. Request the Government of the Republic of Poland to co nvey to the city and people 
of Katowice the gratitude of the Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the  Paris Agreement for the hospitality and warmth 
extended to the participants.  
9th plenary meeting  
15 December 2018  
      
 
GE.20 -04102(E)  

Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting  
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  
  Report of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Pa rties to the Kyoto Protocol on it s fifteenth 
session, held in Madrid  from 2 to 1 5 December 2019  
 Addendum  
 Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at its fifteenth session  
Contents  
  Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  
 Decision  Page  
  1/CMP.15  Chile Madrid Time for Action  ................................ ..........................   2 
  2/CMP.15  Guidance relating to the clea n development mechanism  ..................   3 
  3/CMP.15  Report of the Adaptation Fund Board  ................................ ...............   6 
  4/CMP.15  Workplan of the forum on the impact of the implementation of  
response measures and its Katowice Committee of Experts on the  
Impacts of the Implementation of Response Measures  .....................   8 
  5/CMP.15   Budget for the international transaction log and a methodology  
for the collection of its fees for the bienni um 2020 –2021  ................   18 
  6/CMP.15  Programm e budget for the biennium 2020 –2021  .............................   22 
  7/CMP.15  Administrative, financial and institutional matters  ...........................   27 
Resolution  
  1/CMP.15  Expression of gratitude to the Government of the Republic of Chile,  
the Government  of the Kingdom of Spain and the people of the  
city of Madrid  ................................ ................................ ...................   29 
   United Nations  FCCC /KP/CMP/2019/8/Add.1  
  
Distr.: General  
16 March 2020  
 
Original: English  
FCCC/KP/CMP/2019/8/Add.1  
2    Decision 1/CMP.15  
  Chile Madrid Time for Action  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol ,  
  Recalling decision 1/CMP.8,  
1. Welcomes  decis ion 1/CP.25;  
2. Stresses  the urgency of delivering on the pre -2020 commitments under the Kyoto 
Protocol;  
3. Congratulates  Parties that have accepted the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol;  
4. Underscores  the urgent need for the entry into force of the Doha Amendm ent and 
strongly urge s Parties to the Kyoto Protocol that have yet to ratify the Doha Amendment to 
deposit an instrument of acceptance with the Depositary as soon as possible.  
8th plenary meeting  
15 December 2019  
 FCCC/KP/CMP/2019/8/Add.1  
 3   Decision 2/CMP.15  
   Guidance relating to the clean development mechanism  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
  Recalling Articles 3 and 12 of the Kyoto Protocol,  
Also recalling  decision 3/CMP.1 and subsequent guidance provided by the Confe rence 
of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol relating to the clean 
development mechanism,  
Acknowledging  the contribution to global efforts to address climate change of the 
clean development mechanism, which as at 30 Nove mber 2019 was responsible for over 
7,800 project activities being registered, 325 programmes of activities being registered and 
over 2.02 billion certified emission reductions being issued, of which over 183 million had 
been voluntarily cancelled either in  national registries or in the clean development 
mechanism registry,  
Also acknowledging  that the Executive Board of the clean de velopment mechanism 
requested the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol  to provi de guidance on the functioning of the clean development mechanism beyond 
the end of the second commitment period of the Kyoto Pr otocol,  
Noting  that the Executive Board of the clean development mechanism has estimated 
that the Trust Fund for the Clean Devel opment Mechanism would have a forecasted healthy 
balance of USD 11 –54 million at the end of 2023, in addition to USD 45 million held in 
reserv e, 
I. General  
1. Welcomes the report for 2018 –2019 of the Executive Board of the clean development 
mechanism;1  
2. Apprecia tes the work undertaken over the past year by the Executive Board, its panels 
and the secretariat in overseeing the implementation of the mech anism and maintaining 
stakeholder engagement in its operations;  
3. Notes  that the implementation of the clean develop ment mechanism has resulted in 
the issuance of over 2.02 billion certified emission reductions to date;  
4. Designates  as operational entities tho se entities that have been accredited and 
provisionally designated as such by the Executive Board to carry out sec toral scope -specific 
validation and/or verification functions as set out in the annex;  
II. Baseline and monitoring methodologies  
5. Notes  that the ba seline and monitoring methodologies and methodological tools under 
the clean development mechanism are being utili zed by Parties and stakeholders for other 
measurement, reporting and verification purposes, including in relation to results -based 
finance;  
6. Expresses its appreciation for the work of the Executive Board  in simplifying and 
streamlining the methodologies for  and guidance on demonstrating additionality, and 
communicating the sustainable development co -benefits of clean development mechanism 
project  activities and programmes of activities;  
                                                           
 1 FCCC/KP/CMP/2019/3 . FCCC/KP/CMP/2019/8/Add.1  
4  7. Acknowledges  the work of the Executive Board in reviewing methodological  
approaches for calculating emission reductions achieved by project activities that result in 
reduced use of non -renewable biomass in househol ds; 
8. Encourages the Executive Board to continue  to review the methodological approaches 
referred to in paragraph 7 above , in particular with respect to the default  baseline assumptions 
applied;  
III. Regional and subregional distribution  
9. Acknowledges  that certain Parties and regions have faced challenges in effectively 
participating in the clea n development mechanism;  
10. Appreciates  the work undertaken by the secretariat, th rough its regional collaboration 
centres and other partnership activities, to build capacity for enhanced participation in the 
clean development mechanism;  
IV. Management of financi al resources  
11. Takes note  of the report on the present financial situation of the  clean development 
mechanism and the foreseen budgets for activities up until the end of 2023.2 
  
                                                           
 2 FCCC/KP/CMP/2019/3 , annex I.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2019/8/Add.1  
 5 Annex  
Designation by the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of th e Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at its fifteenth 
session of the operational entities that were accredited by the 
Executive Board of the clean development mechanism during 
its reporting period (1 September 2018 to 12 September 2019)  
[English only]  
 
Name of entity  Sectoral scopes (validation and 
verification)  
AENOR INTERNACIONAL, S.A.U. (AENOR)  1–15 
Carbon Check (India) Private Ltd. (Carbon Check)  1, 3–5, 9, 10, 13 , 14 
Deloitte Tohmatsu Sustainability, Co., Ltd. (DTSUS)  1–3, 5, 10, 12, 13 , 15 
Earthood Ser vices Private Limited (Earthood)  1, 3–7, 9, 10 , 13–15 
4K Earth Science Private Limited (4KES)  1–3, 5, 6 , 12–15 
Colombian Institute for Technical Standards and Certification 
(ICONTEC)  1–3, 7, 13 , 14 
Note : Accreditation granted for five years.  
7th plenary  meeting  
12 December 2019  FCCC/KP/CMP/2019/8/Add.1  
6    Decision 3/CMP.15  
  Report of the Adaptation Fund Board  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol , 
Recalling  decisions 1/CMP.3, 1/CMP.4, 2/CMP.10, 1/CMP.11, 2/CMP.12, 1/CMP.13 
and 1/CMP.14,  
Also recalling decision  13/CMA.1,  
1. Takes note of the annual  report of the Adaptation Fund Board a nd the information 
contained therein;1 
2. Notes the following  information, actions and decisions relating to the Adaptation Fund 
Board presented in the report referred to in paragraph 1 above:  
(a) The accreditation of 31 national implementing entities for accessing resources 
from the Adaptation Fund directly as at 11 October 2019;  
(b) Cumulative project and programme approvals reaching USD 720.0 million as 
at 11 October 2019;  
(c) Funds available for new funding approvals amounting to USD 112.5  million 
as at 11 Oct ober 2019;  
(d) The value of projects and programmes in the active pipeline estimated at over 
USD 248.8 million as at 30 September 2019;  
(e) The approval of fundin g decisions for readiness grants amounting to 
USD  167,110, consisting of USD 99,910 in South –South c ooperation grants and a 
USD  67,200 technical assistance grant for the environmental and social safeguards policy 
and the gender policy;  
(f) The cumulative recei pts of USD 887.1  million into the Adaptation Fund Trust 
Fund, as at 30 June 2019, comprising USD 201 .4 million from the monetization of certified 
emission reductions, USD 657.9 million from additional contributions and USD 27.8 million 
from investment inco me earned on the Trust Fund balance;  
(g) Activities implemented under the first medium -term strategy for  the Fund for 
2018 –2022, including the launch of new grant funding windows for innovation, learning and 
project scale -up; a country exchange in Chile hosted  by its national implementing entity, the 
Chilean Agency of International Cooperation for Developmen t; and the facilitation of the 
first independent meeting of the Community of Practice for Direct Access Entities in 
partnership with the Green Climate Fund,  the Africa Climate Change Fund of the African 
Development Bank and the South African National Biodi versity Institute;  
(h) The approval, during fiscal year 2019 (1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019), of six 
single -country project or programme proposals submitted by im plementing entities, totalling 
USD 30.9 million, including three proposals submitted by national imp lementing entities 
amounting to USD 13.9 million, one proposal submitted by a regional implementing entity 
to the amount of USD 2.5 million, and two proposa ls submitted by multilateral implementing 
entities to the amount of USD 14.5 million;  
(i) The approval, during fiscal year 2020 (1 July 2019 to 30 June 2020), of 11 
single -country project/programme proposals submitted by implementing entities, totalling 
USD 85 .2 million, including one proposal submitted by a national implementing entity to the 
amount of USD 0.8 million, one proposal submitted by a regional implementing entity to the 
amount of USD 9.9 million, and nine proposals submitted by multilateral impleme nting 
entities to the amount of USD 74.5 million, and of two innovation small grants submitted by 
                                                           
 1 FCCC/KP/CMP/2019/4 –FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/2  and Add. 1. FCCC/KP/CMP/2019/8/Add.1  
 7 national implementing entities to the amount of USD 0.5 million and one project scale -up 
grant to the amount of USD 0.1 million;  
(j) The approval, during fiscal y ear 2019 (1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019), of five 
regional (multi -country) projects with funding total ling USD 55.8 million;  
(k) The approval, during fiscal year 2020 (1 July 2019 to 30 June 2020), of five 
regional (multi -country) projects, with total funding of  USD 60.0 million, and of two global 
innovation aggregator programmes implemented by multilateral im plementing entities to the 
amount of USD 10.0 million, as well as the decision to provide funding up to the amount of 
USD 60.0 million for regional project and programme proposals;  
3. Welcomes  the financial pledges and contributions to the Adaptation Fund mad e by the 
Governments of Germany, Ireland, Norway, Poland, Spain and Switzerland, the governments 
of the Brussels -Capital, Flanders and Walloon Regions of Be lgium, and the provincial 
government of Quebec, equivalent to USD 75.4 million;  
4. Also welcomes  the fi rst multi -annual financial pledge to the Adaptation Fund, made 
by the Government of Sweden, equivalent to USD 54.2 million, of which the first annual 
contri bution is USD 13 million;  
5. Reiterates the encouragement of the scaling up of financial resources, inc luding the 
provision of voluntary support, that are additional to the share of proceeds levied on certified 
emission reductions in order to support the reso urce mobilization efforts of the Adaptation 
Fund Board with a view to strengthening the Adaptation F und;2  
6. Adopts  the amended and restated terms  and conditions of services to be provided by 
the World Bank as an interim trustee of the Adaptation Fund;3 
7. Also adopts  the amended and restated memorandum of understanding between the 
Conference of the Parties s erving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the 
Council of the Global Environment Facility regarding secretariat services to the Adaptati on 
Fund Board.4 
8th plenary meeting  
15 December 2019  
                                                           
 2 Decisions 1/CMP.13, para. 7, and 2/CMP.14, para . 7.  
 3 Annex I to the addendum to the 2019 report of the Adaptation Fund Board 
(FCCC/KP/CMP/2019/4/Add.1 –FCCC/PA/CMA/20 19/2/Add.1, annex).  
 4 Annex III to the addendum to the 2019 report of the Adaptation Fund Board 
(FCCC/KP/CMP/2019/4/Add.1 –FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/2/A dd.1, annex).  FCCC/KP/CMP/2019/8/Add.1  
8    Decision 4/CMP.15  
  Workplan of the forum on the impact of the implementation 
of response measures and its Katowice Com mittee of Experts 
on the Impacts of the Implementation of Response Measures  
 The Conference of the Parties , the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol , and  the Conference of the Parties serving as the meetin g 
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement ,  
 Recalling  decisions 7/CP.24 , 3/CMP.14 and 7/CMA.1,  
1. Welcome  the annual report of the Katowice Committee of Experts on the Impacts of 
the Implementation of Response Measures1 and its progress in supporting the work  of the 
forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures;  
2. Adopt  the rules of procedure of the Katowice Committee on Impacts  as contained in 
annex I;  
3. Adopt the workplan of the forum on the impact of the implementation of response 
measures and its Katowice Committee on Impacts  as contained in annex II;  
4. Decide that the forum  on the impact of the implementation of response measures, in 
the context of the impleme ntation of the workplan, may consider, as needed, additional 
modalities for the workplan activities, consistent with the modalities identified in decision 
7/CMA.1, and recommend such additional modalities for the workplan for consideration and 
adoption by the subsidiary bodies ; 
5. Recall  paragraph 12 of decision 7/CMA.1, which provides that the forum on the 
impact of the implementation of response measures shall provide rec ommendations for 
consideration by the subsidiary bodies with a view to the subsidiary bo dies recommending 
actions to the Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference  of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  for conside ration and adoption;  
6. Request the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures to 
continue considering the first annual report  of the Katowice Committe e on Impacts,  including 
the recommendations and considerations contained therein , at the  fifty-sixth session s of the 
subsidiary bodies (June 202 2) with a view to providing recommendations for consideration 
and adoption by the C onference of the Parties , the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol a nd the  Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  at their next session s;  
7. Also r equest  the secretariat to support the imple mentation of the workplan of the 
forum on the impact of the implementation of response m easures and its Katowice 
Committee on Impacts  referred to in paragraph 3 above;  
8. Take  note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraph 3 above;  
9. Request  that the actions of the secret ariat called for in th is decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
                                                           
 1 Available at https://unfccc.int/documents/2 02723 . FCCC/KP/CMP/2019/8/Add.1  
 9 Annex  I 
  Rules of procedure of the Katowice Committee of Experts on 
the Impacts of the Implementation of Response Measures  
I. Scope  
1. These rules of procedure shall apply to the Katowice Committee of Experts on the 
Impacts of the Implementation of Response Measures (K CI) in accordance with decision 
7/CMA.1  and its annex.  
II. Mand ate 
2. The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement  (CMA ), by decision 7/CMA.1 , decided to establish the KCI to support the work 
of the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures in implementin g its 
work programme and operating in accordance with the terms of reference  contained in the 
annex to that decision.   
3. The forum and the KCI may use the following modalities, as appropriate an d as 
decided on a case -by-case basis,  to carry out the work prog ramme of the forum:  
(a) Building awareness and enhancing  information -sharing through the exchange 
and sharing of experience and best practices;  
(b) Preparing technical papers, case studies, specific e xamples and guidelines;  
(c) Receiving inputs from experts, practitio ners and relevant organizations;  
(d) Organizing workshops.  
III. Members  
4. The CMA, by decision 7/CMA.1, decided that the KCI shall be composed of 14 
members, of which:  
(a) Two members from each of the five U nited Nations regional groups;  
(b) One member from the least develop ed countries;  
(c) One member from the small island developing States;  
(d) Two members from relevant intergovernmental organizations.1  
5. By the same decision, the CMA also decided that members shall be nominated by 
their respective groups.  Groups are encouraged to n ominate members taking into account the 
goal of achieving gender balance. The Chairs of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and 
Technological Advice (SBSTA) and the Subsidiary Body for  Implementation  (SBI) shall be 
notified of these appointments.2  
6.  The CMA  also decided that members shall serve in their expert capacity and should 
have relevant qualifications and expertise in the technical and socioeconomic fields related 
to the areas of  the work programme of the forum.3 
7. Further, the CMA decided that members shall serve a term of two years and be eligible 
to serve a maximum of two consecutive terms in office.4 
                                                           
 1 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(b).  
 2 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4( d).  
 3 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(c).  
 4 Decision 7/ CMA.1, annex, para. 4(e).  FCCC /KP/CMP/2019/8/Add.1  
10  8. The term of office of a member shall commence  at the first meeting of the KCI i n the 
calendar year  of their appointment and end immediately before the f irst meeting of the KCI 
in the calendar year after their second calendar year  in office.  
9. If a member of the KCI resigns or is otherwise unable to complete the assigned term 
of office or to perform the functions of that office, the KCI shall request the gro up that 
nominated the member to nominate another member for the remainder of the unexpired term, 
in which case the appointment shall count as one term. In such a case, the KCI shall n otify 
the Chairs of the SBSTA and the SBI.  
10. If a member is unable to parti cipate in two consecutive meetings of the KCI or unable 
to perform the functions and tasks set by the KCI, the Co-Chairs of the KCI will bring this 
matter to the attention of the KCI and seek clarification from the group that nominated that 
member on the s tatus of their membership.  
IV. Co-Chairs  
11. The CMA decided that t he KCI shall elect, on a consensus basis, two members from 
amon g its members to serve as Co -Chairs for a term of two years each,  taking into account 
the need to ensure equitable geographical repre sentation.5 
12. The CMA also decided that if one of the Co -Chairs is temporarily unable to fulfil the 
obligations of the office, another member designated by the KCI shall serve as Co-Chair.6 
13. If one of the Co -Chairs is unable to complete the term of office, th e KCI shall elect a 
replacement from among its members of the relevant group of the incumbent Co -Chair, if 
available, to complete that term of office.  
14. The Co-Chairs shall collab orate in chairing meetings of the KCI and in  facilitating the 
work of the KCI throughout the year , in accordance with the workplan of the forum and its 
KCI, to ensure coherence between meetings.  
15. Following the completion of the Co -Chairs’ two -year term of o ffice, the KCI shall 
nominate two  members as Co-Chairs to serve the next two -year term of office.  
16. The C o-Chairs shall  declare the opening and closing of meeting s of the KCI , ensure 
the observance of these rules of procedure and rule on points of order . 
17. The Co-Chairs shall call upon speakers at meetings of the KCI in the order in whic h 
they signify their desire to speak. The secretariat shall maintain a list of speakers. The Co-
Chairs may call a speaker to order if their remarks are not relevant to the subje ct under 
discussion.  
18. The KCI may further define additional roles and responsib ilities for the Co-Chairs.  
19. In exercising their functions, t he Co-Chairs  shall remain under the authority of the 
KCI.  
V. Secretariat  
20. The secretariat shall support and facilitate the  work of the KCI , by:  
(a) Making the necessary arrangements for the meetings of th e KCI, including 
announcing meetings, issuing invitations, making the necessary travel arrangements for 
members eligible for funding for their participation in meetings and maki ng available 
relevant documents for meetings;  
(b) Maintain ing meeting records and a rrang ing for the storage and preservation of 
documents of meetings  of the KCI ; 
                                                           
 5 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(f).  
 6 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para . 4(g).  FCCC/KP/CMP/2019/8/Add.1  
 11 (c) Making documents of meetings of the KCI available to the public, unless 
otherwise decided by the K CI. 
21. The secretariat shall  assist the KCI in tracking its actions, in accordance  with the 
workplan of the forum and its KCI, in its annual report . 
22. In addition, the secretariat shall perform any other functions assigned  by the KCI, in 
accordance with the workplan of the forum and its KCI.   
VI. Meetings  
23. The KCI shall meet twice per year, fo r two days per meeting, in conjunction with the 
sessions of the subsidiary bod ies. 
24. At least nine members of the KCI must be present to constitute a quorum.  
25. Members are requested to confirm their attendance at meetings of the KCI as early  as 
possible , and a t least four weeks prior to a meeting for members eligible for funding for  their 
participation , to enable sufficient time for the secre tariat to make the necessary travel  
arrangements.  
26. Should technical and financial resources permit, open meetings of the K CI shall be 
webcast through the UNFCCC website.  
27. At each of its meetings, the KCI shall propose the dates of its next meeting. The Co -
Chairs will agree the dates of the next meeting in consultation with the secretariat.  
VII. Agenda and documentation for meetings  
28. The Co-Chairs, assisted by the secretariat, shall prepare the provisional  agenda and 
provisional annotated  agenda for each meeting  of the KCI in accordance with the workplan 
of the forum and its KCI . The Co -Chairs will prepare a report on the meeting, to be agreed 
by members, and this will be made available on the UNFCCC website. The Co -Chairs will 
report back to the forum on the meeting  of the KCI.  
29. The provisional agenda and provisional annotated agenda for each meeting shall be 
transmitted to the member s of the KCI at least four weeks in advance of the meeting.  
30. Members may propose additions or changes to the provisional agenda and pro visional 
annotated agenda, in writing, to the secretariat within one week of receiving the documents, 
and these additions  or changes shall be considered for a revised provisional agenda and 
provisional annotated agenda by the secretariat in agreement with the Co -Chairs.  
31. The secretariat shall transmit the provisional agenda and provisional annotated agenda 
and any supporting  documentation to the members at least two weeks prior to  a meeting. 
Documents may be transmitted after that date with the approval of the Co-Chairs.  
32. Documents for a meeting shall be published on the UNFCCC website at least two  
weeks prior to that meeting , to the extent possible.   
33. The KCI shall, at the beginning of each meeting, adopt the agenda  for that meeting.  
34. The CMA decided that mem bers of the KCI shall prepare an annual report for 
consideration by the forum with a view to making recommendations for c onsideration by the 
SBSTA and the SBI, which, in turn, are to recommend actions to the Conference of the 
Parties (COP), the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol (CMP)  and the CMA  for their consideration and adoption.7  
35. This annual report shall be made available on the UNFCCC website  before  the 
relevant sessions  of the  COP, the CMP  and the CMA . 
                                                           
 7 Decision 7/CMA.1, para. 12, and annex, para. 4(j).  FCCC /KP/CMP/2019/8/Add.1  
12  VIII.  Decision -making  
36. The CMA decided  that the KCI shall operate on the basis of consensus of its 
members.8 
37. The KCI may use  electronic means to facilitate its work, as appropriate and in 
accordance with the workplan of the forum and it s KCI.  
IX. Working language  
38. The working language of the KCI shall be English.  
X. Participation of expert advisers in meetings  
39. The KCI, in performing it s mandate, should draw upon outside expertise at its 
meetings.  
40. The Co-Chairs may, in consultation with the KCI, invite representatives of 
international organizations , the private sector , academia  and/or civil society to participate in 
a meeting of the KCI as expert advisers on specific issues under consideration at the meeting.  
XI. Participation of observers  
41. The CMA dec ided that meetings of the KCI shall be open to attendance as observers 
by all Parties and accredited observer organizations, unless otherwise de cided by the KCI.9  
42. The KCI may decide to close  a meeting or part thereof to observers  at any time . 
43. The secretariat shall make the dates and venues of the meetings available  to the public 
to enable participation by observers.  
44. Observers  may, with the agree ment of the KCI, be invited to address the KCI on 
matters under consideration by the KCI. The Co-Chairs shall notify the KCI one week in 
advance of the meeting of any proposed interventions by observers.  
45. The KCI may request intervention s from observers thr oughout the meeting, as 
appropriate.  
XII. Use of electronic means of communication  
46. The KCI shall  use electronic means of communication to facilitate intersessional 
work , as appropriate and in accordance with the workplan of the forum and its KCI. The 
secretari at shall ensure that a secure and dedicated web interface is e stablished and 
maintained to facilitate the work of the KCI.  
XIII.  Working groups  
47. The KCI may establish working groups among its members to support the forum in 
performing its functi ons. The working g roups may receive inputs from experts, practitioners 
and relevant organizations in accordance with the workplan of the forum and its KCI and  in 
line with paragraphs 39 –40 above.  
                                                           
 8 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(i).  
 9 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(h).   FCCC/KP/CMP/2019/8/Add.1  
 13 XIV. Workplan  
48. The KCI will support the work of the forum in line with the workplan of the forum 
and its KCI.  
XV. Amendments to the rules of procedure  
49. The KCI may recommend amendments to these rules of procedure for consideration 
by the forum and approval by the subsidiary bodies.  
50. Proposals and amendments to proposals for th e rules of procedu re may be introduced 
and submitted to the secretariat in writing by  KCI members; such proposals and amendments 
shall be circulated for consideration by all members of the KCI.  
51. No proposal for the rules of procedure shall be discussed or put forward for a decision 
at any meeting unless copies have been circulated to the KCI members no later than  two 
weeks before  the meeting.  
XVI. Overriding authority of the Convention, the Kyoto Protocol 
and the Paris Agreement  
52. In the event of a conflict betwee n any provision of  these rules and any provis ion of 
the Convention, the Kyoto Protocol  or the Paris Agreement, the provision of the Convention, 
the Kyoto Protocol or the Paris Agreement shall take precedence.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2019/8/Add.1  
14  Annex II 
  Workplan of the forum on the impact of the implementa tion 
of response measures and its Katowice Committee of  Experts 
on the Impacts of the Implementation of Response Measures1 
The Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of 
the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conf erence of the Parties serving as the meeting of 
the Parties to the Paris Agreement  recall:  
(a) Decision 7/CMA.1, paragraph 12, in which  it was decided that the forum on 
the impact of the implementation of response measures shall provide recommendations for 
consideration by the subsidiary bodies with a view to t he subsidiary bodies recommending 
actions to the Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of the Parties serv ing as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Paris Agree ment for consideration and adoption ; 
(b) Decision 7/CMA.1 , annex , paragraph  4(j), in which  it was  decided that the 
members of the Katowice Committee of Experts on the Impacts of the Implementation  of 
Response  Measures  (KCI) shall prepare an annual report for consideration by the forum with 
a view to making recommendations to the Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conferen ce of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Part ies to the Paris Agreement ; 
(c) Decision 7/CMA.1 , annex , paragraph  5, in which it was decided that the forum 
and its KCI may use the following modalities, as appropriate and as decided on a case -by-
case basis , in order to carry out the work programme of the forum:  
(i) Building awareness and enhancing information -sharing through the exchange 
and sharing of experience and best practices;  
(ii) Preparing technical papers, case studies, concrete examples and guidelines;  
(iii) Receiving input from experts, practitioners and relev ant organizations;  
(iv) Organizing workshops ; 
(d) Decision 7/CMA.1 , paragraph  10, in which the subsidiary bodies were  
requested to conduct a midterm review of the work plan of the forum ; 
(e) Decision 7/CMA.1, paragraph 9 , in which  it was decided that the forum shall 
develop and recommend a six -year workplan in line with the forum’s functions, work 
programme and modalities taking into account relevant policy issues of concern to Parties.  
 
                                                           
 1 See the table below .   
 FCCC/ KP/CMP/2019/8/Add.1  
 15 
 
Work plan  of the forum on the imp act of the implementation of response measures and its Katowice Committee of Experts on the Impacts of the Implementation 
of Response Measures  (for the fifty -second to sixty -third sessions of the subsidiary bodies ) 
Activity 
number a Activity  Estimated time line for 
implementation  Responsible 
actor  Modalities/ outputs  
a Provide capacity -building to the C hairs and members of 
UNFCCC constituted bodies and technical teams of the 
secretariat on how to integrate gender considerations 
into their respective areas of  work and on meeting the 
goal of gender balance  (decision 3/CP.23)  SB 52  (June 2020)  KCI Workshop  
b Consideration of the KCI annual report by the forum on 
the impact of the implementation of response measures  
(decision 7/CMA.1 , annex, para. 4(j) ) SB 53  (November 2020) , 
SB 55 (November 2021) , 
SB 57 (November 2022) , 
SB 59 (November 2023) , 
SB 61 (November 2024) 
and SB 63 (2025)  KCI Prepar e annual report  
Forum  Consider annual report  
c Midterm review of th is workplan , starting from SB 56  
(June 2022) ( decision 7/CMA.1, para . 10) SB 56  Forum  Conclusions/draft decisions  
d Prepare information for the technical assessment 
component of the global stocktake related to the impacts 
of the implementation of response measures ( decision 
19/CMA.1, paras . 8 and 24)  SB 5 6 and SB 57 Forum  Forward an outcome document for consideration in the 
technical assessment of the global stocktake  
e Review of the functions, work programme and 
modalities of the forum at SB  59 (decision 7/CMA.1, 
para. 6) SB 58 (June 2023) and 
SB 59 Foru m Prepare g uiding questions for the review  
Receive and consider the review  
1 Explore approaches to informing the development and 
implementation of climate change mitigation strategies, 
plans, policies and programmes, including nationally 
determined contri butions and /or long-term low 
greenhouse gas emission development strategies, that 
maximize the positive and minimize the negative 
impactsb of response measures  SB 52  KCI Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Forum  Input from expe rts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Awareness -building  and enhanc ing information -sharing 
through the exchange and sharing of experience and best 
practices  
2 Identify country -driven strategies and best practices on 
just transition of the work force and creation of decent 
work and quality jobs and on economic diversification SB 54 (May –June 2021) 
and SB 58 KCI Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Concrete examples   
 FCCC/KP/CMP/2019/8/Add.1  
16  
 
Activity 
number a Activity  Estimated time line for 
implementation  Responsible 
actor  Modalities/ outputs  
and transformation focusing on challenges and 
opportunities from the implementation of low 
greenhouse gas emission policies and strategies towards 
the achievement of sus tainable  development  SB 58  Forum  Awareness -building  and enhancing information -sharing 
through the exchange and sharing of experience and best 
practices 
In-session workshop  
3 Facilitate the development, enhancement, customization 
and use of tools and methodologies for modelling and 
assessing the impacts of the implementation of response 
measures , including identifying and reviewing existing 
tools an d approaches in data -poor environments, in 
consultation with technical experts, practitioners and 
other relevant stakeholders  SB 53 and onward, as 
decided by the forum/KCI  KCI Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Technical paper  
Forum  Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Awareness -building  and enhancing information -sharing 
through the exchange and sharing of experience and best 
practices  
Organizing a regional workshop  
4 Enhance the capacity and understand ing of Parties, 
through collaboration and input from stakeholders, on 
the assessment and analysis of the impacts of the 
implementation of response measures to facilitate the 
undertaking of economic diversification and 
transformation and just transition  SB 52 and SB 63 KCI Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Technical paper  
Forum  Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Awareness -building  and enhancing information -sharing 
through the exchange and sharing of ex perience and best 
practices  
5 Build awareness and understanding of Parties and other 
stakeholders to assess the economic impacts of potential 
new industries and businesses resulting from the 
implementation of response measures with a view to 
maximizing th e positive and minimizing the negative 
impacts of the implementation of response measures  SB 57  KCI Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Technical paper  
Forum  Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Awarenes s-building  and enhancing information -sharing 
through the exchange and sharing of experience and best 
practices  
6 Promote the availability and use of guidelines and 
policy frameworks to assist Parties in promoting just 
transition of the workforce and the c reation of decent 
work and quality jobs within and across sectors, 
including trai ning, retooling, retraining and reskilling 
systems and stakeholder engagement strategies  SB 60  (June 2024)  KCI Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Forum  Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Exchange and sharing of experience and best practices   
 FCCC/ KP/CMP/2019/8/Add.1  
 17 
 
Activity 
number a Activity  Estimated time line for 
implementation  Responsible 
actor  Modalities/ outputs  
7 Facilitate the development and exchange of regional, 
country - and/or sector -specific case studies and 
approaches on ( 1) economic di versification and 
transformation and just transition of the workforce and 
creation of decent work and quality jobs, and ( 2) 
assessment and analysis of the impacts of the 
implementation of response measures with a view to 
understanding the positive and nega tive impacts  SB 59  and onward, as 
decided by the forum/KCI  KCI Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
KCI to examine existing case studies and identify an area 
where it may develop a case study, as appropriate  
Forum  Exchange and s haring of experience and best practices  
8 Identify and exchange experiences and best practices in 
engaging the private sector, including small and 
medium -sized enterprises and public –private 
partnerships , to facilitate the creation of decent work 
and qual ity jobs in low greenhouse gas emission sectors  SB 59  KCI Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Technical paper  
Forum  Exchange and sharing of experience and best practices  
Concrete examples  
9 Identify and assess the impacts of t he implementation of 
response measures taking into account intergenerational 
equity, gender considerations and the needs of local 
communities, indigenous peoples, youth and other 
people in vulnerable situations  SB 56  and SB 62 (2025)  KCI Input from experts , practitioners and relevant organizations  
Technical paper  
Forum  Exchange and sharing of experience and best practices  
Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
In-session workshop  
10 Share experience and best practices in reporting  and 
informing on efforts to assess and analy se the impacts 
of the implementation of response measures  SB 61  KCI Exchange and sharing of experience and best practices  
Forum  Exchange and sharing of experience and best practices  
Concrete examples  
11 Facilitate, exchange and share experiences and best 
practices in the assessment of the environmental, social 
and economic co -benefits of climate change policies 
and actions informed by the best available science, 
including the use of existing tools and method ologies  SB 55  and SB 57  KCI Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Forum  Exchange and sharing of experience and best practices  
a   Letters represent activities from previous decisions while numbers are new activities from this decisi on. 
b   “Impacts ” in this document refers to social, economic and environmental impacts.  
Abbreviations : KCI = Katowice Committee of Experts on the Impacts of the Implementation of Response Measures, SB = sessions of the subsidiary bodies.  
7th plenary meeting  
12 December 2019  FCCC/KP/CMP/2019/8/Add.1  
18    Decision 5/CMP.15  
  Budget for the international transaction log and a 
methodology for the collection of its fees for the biennium 
2020–2021  
 The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
 Recalling  Article 13, paragraph 5, of the Kyoto Protocol,  
 Also recalling decisions 11/CMP.3, 10/CMP.5, 9/CMP.6, 8/CMP.8, 8/CMP.11 and 
7/CMP.13,  
 Recognizing  the importance of sufficient and stable funding for  the international 
transaction log,  
 Also recogniz ing the importance of the proper functioning of the international 
transaction log for the Parties listed in Annex B to the Kyoto Protocol as contained in annex  I 
to decision 1/CMP.8,  
1. Approves  the budget for  the international transaction log for the bienniu m 2020 –2021, 
amounting to EUR 4,610,775, for the purposes specified in the proposed budget for the 
international transaction log;1 
2. Decides  to maintain the level of the working capital reserve at 8.3 per cent of the 
estimated expenditure for the Trust Fund for the International Transaction Log;  
3. Authorizes  the Executive Secretary to draw EUR 2.5 million from unspent balances 
of the Trust Fund for the International Transaction Log from previous financial periods to 
cover part of the budget for the biennium 202 0–2021;  
4. Also authorizes  the Executive Secretary to draw funds from unspent balances of the 
Trust Fund for the International Transaction Lo g from previous financial periods to cover the 
potential shortfall in fees due to the disconnection of Parties from th e international transaction 
log; 
5. Notes  that the action referred to in paragraph 3 above is exceptional and is needed to 
disburse the signi ficant unspent funds, and recognizes  that fees for the operation of the 
international transaction log are to be levied  as necessary in future bienniums;  
6. Also notes  that any unspent balances of the Trust Fund for the International 
Transaction Log from previ ous financial periods remaining after the actions referred to in 
paragraphs 3 and 4 above could be used to cover the b udget of the international transaction 
log for future bienniums;  
7. Requests  the administrator of the international transaction log to disclo se in its annual 
reports the unspent balance of the Trust Fund for the International Transaction Log from the 
previous  biennium as at the time of publication of the annual report;  
8. Adopts  the scale of fees for the international transaction log for the bienn ium 2020 –
2021 as contained in the annex;  
9. Decides  that fees for the international transaction log paid by a Party for t he biennium 
2020 –2021 shall be calculated by multiplying the scale of fees for that Party contained in the 
annex by the budget for the int ernational transaction log for the biennium 2020 –2021 and 
adjusted for Parties currently not connected to the internat ional transaction log, taking into 
account the amount drawn from unspent balances as set out in paragraph 3 above, with the 
balance of fee s for the first year of the biennium being equal to the balance of fees for the 
second year of the biennium, as contai ned in the annex;  
                                                           
 1 FCCC/SBI/2017/4/Add. 2.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2019/8/Add.1  
 19 10. Requests  the Executive Secretary to notify Parties connected to the international 
transaction log in the biennium 2020 –2021 of the annual fees, calculated in accordance with 
paragraph 9 above, as early as possible and at least four months  in advance of the relevant 
calendar year, where possible;  
11. Decides  that, if a Party connects to the international transaction log for the first time 
or reconnects to it, the scale of fees for that Party shall be that contained in the annex, or, for 
Parties  not listed in the table contained in the annex, shall be made equal to 130 per cent of 
their Kyoto Protocol adjusted scale for the releva nt biennium;  
12. Also decides  that fees paid by a Party that connects to the international transaction log 
for the first t ime or reconnects to it shall be deducted from the resource requirement for 
activities relating to the international transaction log in th e next biennium;  
13. Further decides  that fees paid by a Party that connects to the international transaction 
log for the first time or reconnects to it during the biennium 2020 –2021 shall be proportioned 
for the period between the date of connection or reconn ection of its registry and the end of 
the biennium, except for the period for which the fees were already paid;  
14. Decide s that, where a Party disconnects during the biennium 2020 –2021, the Party 
shall cover the fees for the full year in which the disconnecti on took place, and that, if the 
disconnection takes place in the first year of the biennium and the Party does not rec onnect 
in the second year of the biennium, fees for the second year of the biennium shall not apply;  
15. Also decides  that, where a Party disc onnected prior to the biennium 2020 –2021, the 
fees shall not apply until the Party reconnects to the international tra nsaction log;   
16. Authorizes the international transaction log administrator to disconnect the registry of 
a Party from the international tra nsaction log in the event of the non -payment of its fees by 
that Party, provided that such disconnection shall not be effected earlier than four months 
after the beginning of the relevant calendar year, at least two reminders have already been 
given to the  Party and consultations have taken place with the Party concerned prior to the 
final reminder;  
17. Requests the internati onal transaction log administrator to provide, in its annual 
reports for 2020 and 2021, information on transactions of Kyoto Protocol unit s; 
18. Also requests  the international transaction log administrator to publish, in its annual 
reports, a table listing th e scale and the level of fees and the status of payments for all Parties 
connected to the international transaction log;  
19. Further requests the Subsidiary Body for Implementation, at its fifty -fourth session 
(May –June 2021), to recommend a methodology for th e collection of international 
transaction log fees in the biennium 2022 –2023 for consideration and adoption by the 
Conference of the Parti es serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at its 
seventeenth session (November 2021).  FCCC/KP/CMP/2019/8/Add.1  
20  Annex  
  Fees for the international transaction log for the biennium 
2020–2021  
 
Party  Scale of fees for 
2020–2021  
(%) Calculated fees 
for 2020 before 
credit from 
unspent 
balances  
(EUR)  Calculated fees 
for 2021 before 
credit from 
unspent 
balances  
(EUR)  Balance of fe es 
for 2020 after 
credit from 
unspent 
balances  
(EUR)  Balance of fees 
for 2021 after 
credit from 
unspent 
balances  
(EUR)  
Australia  2.841  67 287  67 287  30 803  30 803  
Austria  1.588  37 610  37 610  17 218  17 218  
Belarusa 0.073  -  -  -  - 
Belgium  1.973  46 729 46 729 21 392  21 392  
Bulgaria  0.036   853  853  390  390 
Croatia  0.079  1 871  1 871   857  857 
Cyprus  0.061  1 445  1 445   662  662 
Czechia  0.503  11 913  11 913  5 454  5 454  
Denmark  1.323  31 334  31 334  14 344  14 344  
Estonia  0.028   663  663  304  304 
European  Union  2.685  63 592  63 592  29 112  29 112  
Finland  1.009  23 897  23 897  10 940  10 940  
France  10.667  252 638  252 638  115 656  115 656  
Germany  15.35  363 551  363 551  166 431  166 431  
Greece  1.065  25 224  25 224  11 547  11 547  
Hungary  0.437  10 350  10 350 4 738  4 738 
Iceland  0.737  17 455  17 455  7 991  7 991  
Ireland  0.797  18 876  18 876  8 641  8 641  
Italy 9.090  215 289  215 289  98 558  98 558  
Japan  14.939  353 817  353 817  161 971  161 971  
Kazakhstana 0.157  -  -  -  - 
Latvia  0.032   758  758  347  347 
Liechtenstein  0.188 4 453  4 453  2 039  2 039  
Lithuania  0.055  1 303  1 303   597  597 
Luxembourg  0.153  3 624  3 624  1 659  1 659  
Malta  0.021   497  497  228  228 
Monaco  0.181  4 287  4 287  1 963  1 963  
Netherlands  3.352  79 389  79 389  36 344  36 344  
New Zealand  0.961  22 760  22 760 10 419  10 419  
Norway  2.319  54 923  54 923  25 143  25 143  
Poland  0.896  21 221  21 221  9 715  9 715  
Portugal  0.943  22 334  22 334  10 224  10 224  
Romania  0.125  2 961  2 961  1 356  1 356  
Russian Federationa 2.743  -  -  -  - 
Slovakia  0.113  2 676  2 676  1 225  1 225  
Slovenia  0.171  4 050  4 050  1 854  1 854  
Spain  5.311  125 786  125 786  57 584  57 584  
Sweden  1.917  45 402  45 402  20 785  20 785  
Switzerland  2.760  65 368  65 368  29 925  29 925  FCCC/KP/CMP/2019/8/Add.1  
 21 Party  Scale of fees for 
2020–2021  
(%) Calculated fees 
for 2020 before 
credit from 
unspent 
balances  
(EUR)  Calculated fees 
for 2021 before 
credit from 
unspent 
balances  
(EUR)  Balance of fe es 
for 2020 after 
credit from 
unspent 
balances  
(EUR)  Balance of fees 
for 2021 after 
credit from 
unspent 
balances  
(EUR)  
Ukraine  0.745  17 645  17 645  8 078  8 078  
United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland  11.888  281 557  281 557  128 894  128 894  
Feesb  2 305 388  2 305 388  1 055 388  1 055 388  
Credit from unspent 
balances from previous 
financial periods   - - 1 250 000  1 250 000  
Totalb  2 305 388  2 305 388 2 305 388  2 305 388  
a   Parties current ly not connected to the international transaction log. These Parties will be subject to the 
international transaction log fees in the case of connection or reconnection to the international transaction log, in 
accordance with paragraphs 11 –13 of this decis ion. 
b   Totals may not add up exactly owing to rounding and the need to have an equal balance of fees in accordance 
with paragraph 9 of this decision.  
7th plenary meeting  
12 December 2019  FCCC/KP/CMP/2019/8/Add.1  
22    Decision 6/CMP.15  
  Programme budget for the biennium 2020 –2021  
 The Conference of the Parties  serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
 Recalling Article 13, paragraph 5, of the Kyoto Protocol,   
 Taking note of decision 17/CP.25, in particular paragraph 1,  
 Having considered the proposed  programme budg et for the biennium 2020 –2021 
submitted by the Executive Secretary,1  
1. Endorses  decision 17/CP.25 on the programme budget for the biennium 2020 –2021  
as it applies to the Kyoto Protocol;  
2. Adopts the indicative scale of contributions contained i n the annex;  
3. Notes that the indicative scale of contributions  covers 10.0 per cent of the indicative 
contributions specified in table 1 of the decision referred to in paragraph 1 above;  
4. Invites  all Parties to the Kyoto Protocol to note that each Party shal l, prior to 1 J anuary 
of each year, inform the secretariat of the contribution it intends to make that year and of the 
projected timing of that contribution in accordance with paragraph 8(a) of the financial 
procedures for the Conference of the Parties, it s subsidiary bo dies and the secretariat,2 and 
that contributions to the core budget are due on 1 January of each year in accordance with 
paragraph 8(b) of the financial procedures, and to pay promptly and in full, for each of 2020 
and 2021, the contributions required to finance the expenditures a pproved in paragraph 1 
above;  
5. Takes note  of the funding arrangements for the clean development mechanism and 
joint implementation;  
Other financial and budgetary matters  
6. Also takes note  of the information contained in the note by t he secretariat on the 
revised indicative contributions for 2019;3 
7. Decides that the indicative scale of contributions contained in the annex shall also be 
applicable for 2019, covering 15 per cent of the contrib utions specified in table 1 of decision 
21/CP. 23. 
                                                           
 1 FCCC/SBI /2019/4  and Add.1 –2. 
 2 Decision 15/CP.1, annex I . 
 3 FCCC/ SBI/2019/INF.5.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2019/8/Add.1  
 23 Annex  
Indicative scale of contributions from Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol for 2019 –2021  
 
Party  United Nations scale of 
assessments for 2019 –2021  Kyoto Protocol scale for 
2019–2021  
Afghanistan  0.007  0.009  
Albania  0.008  0.010  
Algeria  0.138  0.179  
Angola  0.010  0.013  
Antigua and Barbuda  0.002  0.003  
Argentina  0.915  1.186  
Armenia  0.007  0.009  
Australia  2.210  2.863  
Austria  0.677  0.877  
Azerbaijan  0.049  0.063  
Bahamas  0.018  0.023  
Bahrain  0.050  0.065  
Bangladesh  0.010  0.013  
Barbados  0.007  0.009  
Belarus 0.049  0.063  
Belgium  0.821  1.064  
Belize  0.001  0.001  
Benin  0.003  0.004  
Bhutan  0.001  0.001  
Bolivia (Plurinational State of)  0.016  0.021  
Bosnia and Herzegovina  0.012  0.016  
Botswana  0.014  0.018  
Brazil  2.948  3.820  
Brunei Darussalam  0.025  0.032  
Bulg aria 0.046  0.060  
Burkina Faso  0.003  0.004  
Burundi  0.001  0.001  
Cabo Verde  0.001  0.001  
Cambodia  0.006  0.008  
Cameroon  0.013  0.017  
Central African Republic  0.001  0.001  
Chad  0.004  0.005  
Chile  0.407  0.527  
China  12.005  15.555  
Colombia  0.288  0.373  
Comor os 0.001  0.001  
Congo  0.006  0.008  
Cook Islands  0.000  0.001  
Costa Rica  0.062  0.080  
Côte d’Ivoire  0.013  0.017  
Croatia  0.077  0.100  
Cuba  0.080  0.104  
Cyprus  0.036  0.047  
Czechia  0.311  0.403  
Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea  0.006  0.008  
Democratic Re public of the Congo  0.010  0.013  
Denmark  0.554  0.718  
Djibouti  0.001  0.001  
Dominica  0.001  0.001  FCCC/KP/CMP/2019/8/Add.1  
24  Party  United Nations scale of 
assessments for 2019 –2021  Kyoto Protocol scale for 
2019–2021  
Dominican Republic  0.053  0.069  
Ecuador  0.080  0.104  
Egypt  0.186  0.241  
El Salvador  0.012  0.016  
Equatorial Guinea  0.016  0.021  
Eritrea  0.001  0.001  
Estonia  0.039 0.051  
Eswatini  0.002  0.003  
Ethiopia  0.010  0.013  
European Union  0.000  2.500  
Fiji 0.003  0.004  
Finland  0.421  0.545  
France  4.427  5.736  
Gabon  0.015  0.019  
Gambia  0.001  0.001  
Georgia  0.008  0.010  
Germany  6.090  7.891  
Ghana  0.015  0.019  
Greece  0.366  0.474  
Grenada  0.001  0.001  
Guatemala  0.036  0.047  
Guinea  0.003  0.004  
Guinea -Bissau  0.001  0.001  
Guyana  0.002  0.003  
Haiti  0.003  0.004  
Honduras  0.009  0.012  
Hungary  0.206  0.267  
Iceland  0.028  0.036  
India  0.834  1.081  
Indonesia  0.543  0.704  
Iran (Islamic  Republic of)  0.398  0.516  
Iraq 0.129  0.167  
Ireland  0.371  0.481  
Israel  0.490  0.635  
Italy 3.307  4.285  
Jamaica  0.008  0.010  
Japan  8.564  11.096  
Jordan  0.021  0.027  
Kazakhstan  0.178  0.231  
Kenya  0.024  0.031  
Kiribati  0.001  0.001  
Kuwait  0.252  0.327  
Kyrgy zstan  0.002  0.003  
Lao People’s Democratic Republic  0.005  0.006  
Latvia  0.047  0.061  
Lebanon  0.047  0.061  
Lesotho  0.001  0.001  
Liberia  0.001  0.001  
Libya  0.030  0.039  
Liechtenstein  0.009  0.012  
Lithuania  0.071  0.092  
Luxembourg  0.067  0.087  
Madagascar  0.004 0.005  
Malawi  0.002  0.003  
Malaysia  0.341  0.442  
Maldives  0.004  0.005  
Mali  0.004  0.005  FCCC/KP/CMP/2019/8/Add.1  
 25 Party  United Nations scale of 
assessments for 2019 –2021  Kyoto Protocol scale for 
2019–2021  
Malta  0.017  0.022  
Marshall Islands  0.001  0.001  
Mauritania  0.002  0.003  
Mauritius  0.011  0.014  
Mexico  1.292  1.674  
Micronesia (Federated States of)  0.001  0.001  
Mon aco 0.011  0.014  
Mongolia  0.005  0.006  
Montenegro  0.004  0.005  
Morocco  0.055  0.071  
Mozambique  0.004  0.005  
Myanmar  0.010  0.013  
Namibia  0.009  0.012  
Nauru  0.001  0.001  
Nepal  0.007  0.009  
Netherlands  1.356  1.757  
New Zealand  0.291  0.377  
Nicaragua  0.005  0.006 
Niger  0.002  0.003  
Nigeria  0.250  0.324  
Niue  0.000  0.001  
North Macedonia  0.007  0.009  
Norway  0.754  0.977  
Oman  0.115  0.149  
Pakistan  0.115  0.149  
Palau  0.001  0.001  
Panama  0.045  0.058  
Papua New Guinea  0.010  0.013  
Paraguay  0.016  0.021  
Peru 0.152  0.197 
Philippines  0.205  0.266  
Poland  0.802  1.039  
Portugal  0.350  0.453  
Qatar  0.282  0.365  
Republic of Korea  2.267  2.937  
Republic of Moldova  0.003  0.004  
Romania  0.198  0.257  
Russian Federation  2.405  3.116  
Rwanda  0.003  0.004  
Saint Kitts and Nevis  0.001  0.001  
Saint Lucia  0.001  0.001  
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines  0.001  0.001  
Samoa  0.001  0.001  
San Marino  0.002  0.003  
Sao Tome and Principe  0.001  0.001  
Saudi Arabia  1.172  1.519  
Senegal  0.007  0.009  
Serbia  0.028  0.036  
Seychelles  0.002  0.003  
Sierra Le one 0.001  0.001  
Singapore  0.485  0.628  
Slovakia  0.153  0.198  
Slovenia  0.076  0.098  
Solomon Islands  0.001  0.001  
Somalia  0.001  0.001  
South Africa  0.272  0.352  
Spain  2.146  2.781  FCCC/KP/CMP/2019/8/Add.1  
26  Party  United Nations scale of 
assessments for 2019 –2021  Kyoto Protocol scale for 
2019–2021  
Sri Lanka  0.044  0.057  
Sudan  0.010  0.013  
Suriname  0.005  0.006  
Sweden  0.906  1.174  
Switzerland  1.151  1.491  
Syrian Arab Republic  0.011  0.014  
Tajikistan  0.004  0.005  
Thailand  0.307  0.398  
Timor -Leste  0.002  0.003  
Togo  0.002  0.003  
Tonga  0.001  0.001  
Trinidad and Tobago  0.040  0.052  
Tunisia  0.025  0.032  
Turkey  1.371  1.776  
Turkmeni stan 0.033  0.043  
Tuvalu  0.001  0.001  
Uganda  0.008  0.010  
Ukraine  0.057  0.074  
United Arab Emirates  0.616  0.798  
United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland  4.567  5.917  
United Republic of Tanzania  0.010  0.013  
Uruguay  0.087  0.113  
Uzbekistan  0.032 0.041  
Vanuatu  0.001  0.001  
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)  0.728  0.943  
Viet Nam  0.077  0.100  
Yemen  0.010  0.013  
Zambia  0.009  0.012  
Zimbabwe  0.005  0.006  
Total  100.000  100.000  
7th plenary meeting  
12 December 2019  FCCC/KP/CMP/2019/8/Add.1  
 27   Decision 7/CMP.15  
  Administrati ve, financial and institutional matters  
 The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
 Recalling Article 13, paragraph 5, of the Kyoto Protocol,  
 Also recalling  decision 18/CP.24, section III, on other budgetar y matters,  
 Further recalling the financial procedures for the Conference of the Parties, which 
also apply to the Kyoto Protocol,1 
Taking note  of decision 18/CP.25,  
 Having  considered  the information contained in the documents prepared by the 
secretariat o n administrative, financial and institutional  matters,2 
 Noting that notifications to Parties of their contributions for 2020 were sent to them 
by 30 September 2019,  
 Welcoming  ongoing efforts to improve the efficiency and transparency of the 
UNFCCC budget  process,  
I. Budget performance for the biennium 2018 –2019  
1. Takes note  of the information contained in the report on budget performance for the 
biennium 2 018–2019 as at 30 June 20193 and the note on the status of contributions to the 
trust funds administered b y the secretariat as at 15 November 2019;4 
2. Expresses its appreciation  to Parties that made contributions to the core budget, in 
particular to Parties that made contributions in a timely manner;  
3. Expresses concern  regarding the high level of outstanding cont ributions to the core 
budget for the current and previous bienniums, which has resulted in difficulties with cash 
flow and the effective implementatio n of activities;  
4. Strongly urges  Parties that have not made contributions in full to the core budget for 
the current and/or previous bienniums to do so without further delay;  
5. Calls upon  Parties to make their contributions to the core budget for 2020 in a ti mely 
manner, noting that letters requesting payment have already been sent by the secretariat to 
all Parti es and bearing in mind that contributions are due on 1 January of each year in 
accordance with the financial procedures for the Conference of the Part ies; 
6. Expresses its appreciation  for the contributions to the Trust Fund for Participation in 
the UNFCCC Pr ocess and to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities received from 
Parties, including those contributions that allow for greater flexibility in al location;  
7. Urges  Parties to further contribute to the Trust Fund for Participation in the UNFCCC 
Process, i n order to ensure the widest possible participation in the negotiations in 2020 –2021, 
and to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities;  
8. Reiterates its appreciation  to the Government of Germany for its annual voluntary 
contribution to the core budget of EUR 766,938 and its special contribution  of 
EUR  1,789,522 as Host Government of the secretariat;  
                                                           
 1 Decision 15/CP.1, annex I . 
 2 FCCC/SBI/2019/14 and Add.1 –2, FCCC/SBI/201 9/INF. 9 and Add.1 , FCCC/SBI/201 9/INF. 12 and  
FCCC/SBI/201 9/INF. 16. 
 3 FCCC/SBI/2019/14 and Add.1 –2. 
 4 FCCC/SBI/2019/INF.16.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2019/8/Add.1  
28  9. Requests  the Executive Secretary to take further meas ures to recover outstanding 
contributions and encourages  Parties to pay those outstanding contributions as  soon as 
possible;  
II. Audit report and financial statements for 2018  
10. Takes note  of the information contained in the audit report of the United Nations 
Board of Auditors5 and the financial statements for 2018, which include recommendations, 
and the comments of  the secretariat thereon;  
11. Expresses its appreciation  to the United Nations for arranging the audit of the 
accounts of the Convention;  
12. Also expresses i ts appreciation  to the auditors for the valuable observations and 
recommendations and the presentation mad e thereon to Parties;  
13. Urges  the Executive Secretary to implement the recommendations of the auditors, as 
appropriate, including those outstanding from the 2017 audit report, and to update Parties on 
progress in the next audit report;  
14. Requests  the Executive  Secretary in her update to  Parties on progress towards 
implementing the recommendation of the auditors to provide expected timelines for the 
completion of audit recommendations that are under implementation;  
III. Other budgetary matters  
15. Encourages  the secretar iat to enhance its implementation of decision 18/CP.24 in 
order to continue to improve the transparency and efficiency of the UNFCCC budget with a 
view to reducing redundancies and increasing cost -efficiency;  
16. Also encourages  Parties to take i nto account t he budgetary implications of decisions 
and conclusions in advance of decision -making;  
17. Welcomes  the notes by the Executive Secretary on the budgetary implications of 
UNFCCC mandates: standard costs, prepared for consideration at the fiftieth an d fifty -first 
sessions of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation ;6 
18. Requests  the secretariat to implement the recommendations contained in document 
FCCC/SBI/2019/INF.4;  
19. Also requests  the secretariat to report on its efforts to further improve the efficiency  
and transpar ency of the UNFCCC budget process and documentation for consideration at the 
first session of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation each year, including on its 
implementation of this decision, and on the provisions on other budgetary matters contained 
in decision 18/CP.24.  
7th plenary meeting  
12 December 2019  
                                                           
 5 FCCC/SBI/2019/INF.9 and Add.1.  
 6 FCCC /SBI/2019/INF.4 and FCCC/SBI/2019/INF.12.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2019/8/Add.1  
 29   Resolution 1/CMP.15  
   Expression of gratitude to the Government of the Republic of 
Chile, the Government of the Kingdom of Spain and the 
people of the city of Madrid  
 Resolution submitted by the U nited Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland  
 The Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Pa ris Agreement , 
 Having met  in Madrid from 2 to 1 5 December 2019,  
1. Express th eir profound gratitude to the Government of the Republic of Chile and the 
Government of the Kingdom of Spain for having made it possible for the twenty -fifth session 
of the Confere nce of the Parties, the fifteenth session of the Conference of the Parties s erving 
as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the second session of the Conference 
of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement to b e held in 
Madrid;  
2. Request the Government of the Kingdom of Spain and the Gov ernment of the 
Republic of Chile to convey to the city and people of Madrid the gratitude of the Conference 
of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement for the hospitality and warmth extended to the participants.  
10th plenary meeting  
15 December 2019  
      
GE.22 -03269(E)  
Conference of the Parties  serving as the meeting  
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  
Report of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol on its  
sixteenth session, held in Glasgow from 31 October  
to 13 November 2021  
Addendum  
Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at its sixteenth session  
Contents  
Decision s adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  
Decision  Page 
1/CMP.16  Glasgow Clima te Pact  ................................ ................................ ................................   2 
2/CMP.16  Guidance relating to the clean development mechanism  ................................ ...........   3 
3/CMP.16  Report of the Adaptation Fund Board for 2020 and 2021  ................................ .........   7 
4/CMP.16  Fourth review of the Adaptation Fund  ................................ ................................ .......  11 
5/CMP.16  Fourth comprehensive review of the implementation of the framework for  
  capacity -building in developing countries under the Kyoto Protocol  ........................   14 
6/CMP.16  Fifth review of the implementation of the framework for capacity -building  
  in countries with economies in transition under the Kyoto Protocol  .........................   16 
7/CMP.16  Matters relating to the forum on t he impact of the implementation of  
  response measures  ................................ ................................ ................................ .....  18 
8/CMP.16  Programme budget for the biennium 2022 –2023  ................................ ......................   26 
9/CMP.16  Budget for the international transaction log  ................................ ...............................   31 
10/CMP.16  Administrative, financial and institutional matters  ................................ ....................   34 
Resolution  
1/CMP.16  Expression of gratitude to the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain  
  and Northern Ireland and the people of the city of Glasgow  ................................ .....  37  United Nations  FCCC /KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
 
  
Distr.: General  
8 March  2022  
 
Original: English  
FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
2  Decision 1/CMP.16  
Glasgow Climate Pact  
 The Conference of the Parties  serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
 Recalling  decision 1/CMP.8,  
1. Congratulates  Parties that have accepted the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Pro tocol;  
2. Welcomes  the entry into force of the Doha Amendment, on 31 December 2020;  
3. Notes  that the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol ended on 31 
December 2020;  
4. Strongly urges  Parties that have accepted the Doha Amendment to implement their 
pre-2020 commitments to the fullest extent as soon as possible.  
10th plenary meeting  
13 Novemb er 2021  FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
 3 Decision 2/CMP.16  
Guidance relating to the clean development mechanism  
 The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
 Recalling  Articles 3 and 12 of the Kyoto Protocol,  
 Also recalling  decision 3/CMP.1 and subsequent guidance provided by the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol relating 
to the clean development mechanism,  
 Acknowledging  the contribution to global efforts to address climate change of the 
clean development mechanism, which as at 31 October 2 021 was responsible for over 7,849 
project activities being registered, 356 programmes of activities being registered and over 
2.17 billion certified emission reductions being issued, of which over 301 million had been 
voluntarily cancelled either in natio nal registries or in the clean development mechanism 
registry,  
 Welcoming  the entry into force of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol,1 
 Cognizant  of decision 3/CMA.3  and its annex,  
 Recognizing  the need for a smooth transition from the clean development mechanism 
to the mechanism established by Article 6, paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreement,  
I. General  
1. Welcomes the reports for 2019 –2020 and 2020 –2021 of the Executive Board of the 
clean development mechanism;2 
2. Takes note of the work undertaken over the past two years by the Executive Board, 
its panels and the secretariat in overseeing the implementation of the mechanism and 
maintaining stakeholder engagement in its operations;  
3. Designates  as operational entities those entities that have been accredited and 
provisionally designated as such by the Executive Board to carry out sectoral scope -specific 
validation and/or verification functions as set out in the annex;  
II. Baseline  and monitoring met hodologies  
4. Acknowledges  the work of the Executive Board in reviewing methodological 
approaches to calculating emission reductions achieved by project activities that result in the 
reduced use of non -renewable biomass in households  and in including in these approaches 
region -specific default values for the baseline fossil fuel emission factor;  
5. Requests  the Executive Board to continue  to review the methodological approaches 
referred to in paragraph 4 above , in particular with respect  to the default baseline assumptions 
applied;  
 
 1 Decision 1/CMP.8, annex I.  
 2 FCCC/KP/CMP/2020/1 and Corr.1 and FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/4.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
4  III. Functioning of the clean development mechanism 
beyond the end of the second commitment period of the 
Kyoto Protocol  
6. Acknowledges  the recommendations of the Executive Board that the Conference of 
the Parties ser ving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol provide guidance on 
the functioning of the clean development mechanism beyond the end of the second 
commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol;3 
7. Decides  that requests for registration, renewal of credi ting period and issuance of 
certified emission reductions for project activities, as well as the equivalent submissions for 
programmes of activities, relating to emission reductions occurring after 31 December 2020 
may not be submitted under the clean deve lopment mechanism, acknowledging that such 
requests and submissions may be made under the mechanism established by Article 6, 
paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreement (hereinafter referred to as the Article 6 , para graph 4, 
mechanism), approval of which is subje ct to compliance with its rules, modalities and 
procedures and any other requirements determined by the Conference of the Parties serving 
as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement or the body that supervises the Article 
6, paragraph 4, mechanism  as designated by decision 3/CMA.3  (hereinafter referred to as the 
Supervisory Body);  
8. Also decides  to conclude its consideration of the following matters related to the clean 
development mechanism, which have been referred to the subsidiary bodies:  
(a) Review of the modalities and procedures for the clean development 
mechanism, referred to the Subsidiary Body for Implementation;4 
(b) Procedures, mechanisms and institutional arrangements for appeals against 
decisions of the Executive Board of the clean devel opment mechanism, referred to the 
Subsidiary Body for Implementation;5 
(c) Land use, land -use change and forestry under Article 3, paragraphs 3−4, of the 
Kyoto Protocol and the clean development mechanism, referred to the Subsidiary Body for 
Scientific and Te chnological Advice;6 
(d) Implications of the inclusion of reforestation of lands with forest in exhaustion 
as afforestation and reforestation clean development mechanism project activities, referred 
to the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advi ce;7 
9. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to consider measures for 
implement ing aspects relating to the clean development mechanism registry in decision 
3/CMA.38 and to develop recommendations for consideration by the Conference of the 
Parties  serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at its seventeenth session 
(November 2022);  
10. Also requests  the Executive Board to cooperate with the Supervisory Body upon its 
request to facilitate the expedited implementation of the Article 6 , paragraph 4, mechanism;  
11. Further requests  the Executive Board to make available hard and soft infrastructure 
under the clean development mechanism to the Supervisory Body to facilitate the expedited 
implementation of the Article 6 , paragraph 4, mechanism;  
12. Decides  that any registered clean development mechanism project activities and 
programmes of activities that have transitioned to the Article 6 , paragraph  4, mechanism in 
 
 3 See documents FCCC/KP/CMP/2017/5, FCCC/KP/CMP/2018/3, FCCC/KP/CMP/2019/3, 
FCCC/KP/CMP/2020/1 and FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/4.  
 4 See decision 5/CMP.8, para. 14. 
 5 See decision 3/CMP.6, para. 18 . 
 6 See decisions 2/CMP.7, para. 6, and 7/CMP.10, para. 4.  
 7 See decision 2/CMP.5, para. 28.  
 8 Relates to the transfer of certified emission reductions from the clean development mechanism 
registry to the registry for the Article 6, paragraph 4, mechanism.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
 5 accordance with decision 3/CMA.3  shall be deregistered from the clean development 
mechanism effective from the date of transition;  
13. Requests the Executive Board to retain the provisional status accorded to the requests 
for registration, renewal of crediting period and issuance of certifie d emission reductions for 
project activities as well as to the equivalent submissions for programmes of activities under 
the temporary measures adopted by the Executive Board at its 108th meeting,  acknowledging 
decision 3/CMA.3 , according to which the requ ests and other submissions that have been 
accorded provisional status under the temporary measures that meet the conditions for 
transition therein may transition to the Article 6 , paragraph  4, mechanism;  
14. Also requests  the Executive Board to reject the requ ests and other submissions that 
have been accorded provisional status under the temporary measures but have not 
subsequently transitioned to the Article 6 , paragraph  4, mechanism;  
15. Decides that the Executive Board may continue receiving and processing the r elevant 
requests and submissions under the temporary measures until the date  when the process for 
submission of requests to the secretariat to transition the requests and other submissions that 
have been accorded provisional status to the Article 6 , paragr aph 4, mechanism becomes 
operational, as may be specified by the Supervisory Body;  
IV. Management of financial resources  
16. Decides  to discontinue the allocation, as set out in decision 3/CMP.6, of any interest 
accruing on the Trust Fund for the Clean Development Mechanism, given the administrative 
and budgetary closure of the CDM Loan Scheme in 2020 pursuant to decision 3/CMP.12;  
17. Also decides to allocate the remaining balance of the CDM Loan Scheme and any 
interest accruing on the Trust Fund for the Clean Development Mechanism to the Trust Fund 
for Supplementary Activities for capacity -building to enhance regional climate action;9 
18. Further decides  to authorize the transfer of USD 30 million from the Trust Fund for 
the Clean Development Mechanism to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities for the 
work of the Supervisory Body to facilitate the expedited implementation of the Article 6, 
paragraph  4, mechanism;  
19. Decides  to authorize the transfer of USD 10 million from the Trust Fund for the Clean 
Development Mechanism to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities for the work of the 
Supervisory Body to provide, through the regional coll aboration centres, capacity -building 
in developing countries for apply ing the Article 6 , paragraph  4, mechanism, and support for 
the transition of clean development mechanism project activities and programmes of 
activities to the Article 6 , paragraph  4, mechanism if they are eligible for transition;  
20. Also decides  to authorize the transfer of USD 20 million from the Trust Fund for the 
Clean Development Mechanism to the Adaptation Fund;  
21. Invites  the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Partie s to the Paris 
Agreement to allocate the equivalent amount referred to in paragraph 18 above  from the fund 
supporting the Article 6 , paragraph  4, mechanism to the Adaptation Fund after the Article 6 , 
paragraph  4, mechanism has become self -financing;  
22. Requests the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to review the status of the Trust 
Fund for the Clean Development Mechanism and to develop recommendations for 
considerat ion by the Conference of the Parties serving as th e meeting of the Parties to the 
Kyoto Protocol at its eighteenth session (November 2023).  
 
 9 See decision 22/CP.26, table 4, project number SB400 -002.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
6  Annex  
Designation of operational entities by the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol at its sixteenth session  
[English only]  
Name of entity   Sectoral scopes (validation and 
verification)   
China Building Material Test and Certification Group Co. Ltd. (CTC)a  1–4, 6, 9 –10, 13 –15  
China Certification Center, Inc. (CCCI)a  1–15  
China Classification Society Certification Company (CCSC)a 1–10, 13 –14  
KBS Certification Services Pvt. Ltd. (KBS)a  1–5, 7–10, 12 –15  
Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. (LRQA)b  1–3, 7, 13   
China Building Material Test and Certification Group Co. Ltd. (CTC)c  5, 11, 16   
Korean Standards Association (KSA)c  14–15  
a Accreditation granted for five years.  
b Voluntary withdrawal of accreditation in its entirety.  
c Extension of scope. For the entities for which the scope of accreditation was extended, only the new sectoral 
scopes are indicated.  
10th plenary meeting  
13 Novembe r 2021FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
 7 Decision 3/CMP.16  
Report of the Adaptation Fund Board for 2020 and 2021  
 The Conference of the Parties  serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
 Recalling  decisions  1/CMP.3, 1/CMP.4, 2/CMP.10, 1/CMP.11, 2/CMP.12, 
1/CMP.13, 1/CMP.14 and 3/CMP.15,  
 Also recalling  decision  13/CMA.1,  
1. Takes note of the annual reports of the Adaptation  Fund Board for 2020 and 2021 and 
the information co ntained therein;1 
2. Notes the following information, actions and decisions relating to the Adaptation Fund 
Board presented in the reports referred to in paragraph 1 above : 
(a) A request for the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties 
to the Kyoto Protocol and/or the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Paris Agreement to provide  guidance and/or clarification on how to add ress 
requests for funding from Parties that are either a Party to the Kyoto Protocol or a Party to 
the Paris Agreement but not a Party to both;2  
(b) The updated response of the Adaptation Fund Board3 to the guidance of the 
Conference of the Parties serving  as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol 
pertaining to the third review of the Adaptation Fund;4 
(c) The accreditation of 4 national implementing entities, 2 multilateral 
implementing entiti es and 1 regional implementing entity (with the national implementing 
entities granted direct access to resources from the Adaptation Fund), resulting in a total 
number of accredited implementing entities of 33 national (of which 9 in the least developed 
countries and 7 in small island developing States), 14 multilateral and 7 regional 
implementing entities, of which 31 were reaccredited (16 national implementing entities, 4 
regional implementing entities and 11 multilateral implementing entities) for acces sing 
resources from the Adaptation Fund directly;  
(d) Cumulative project and programme approvals increasing by around 32 per cent 
to USD 744.58 million between 1 July 2019 and 30 June 2020 and by 12 per cent to 
USD  831.49 million between 1 July 2020 and 30 Jun e 2021, despite the challenging 
circumstances related to the coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic;  
(e) Resources available for new funding approvals amounting to USD 167.2 0 
million as at 30 June  2020 and USD 195.69 million as at 30 June 2021;  
(f) New funding approval s, including for concrete single -country and regional 
(multi -country) proposals, grant proposals under  the Medium -Term Strategy of the 
Adaptation Fund for 2018 –20225 and readiness grants amounting to USD 180.5 million as at 
30 June 2020 and USD 86.9 milli on as at 30 June 2021;  
(g) An a ctive pipeline of project and programme proposals  submitted but not 
approved amounting to around USD 286 million as at 30 June 2020 and USD 279 million as 
at 30 June 2021, reflecting an upward trend from previous years;  
 
 1 FCCC/KP/CMP/2020/2−FCCC/PA/CMA/2020/2 and 
FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/2−FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/4 and Add.1.  
 2  For the status of issues related to the Adaptation Fund and the Paris Agreement, see annex IX to 
docume nt FCCC/KP/CMP/2020/2−FCCC/PA/CMA/2020/2 and chap. V of document 
FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/2−FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/4.  
 3 FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/2−FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/4 , annex IX.  
 4 See decision 2/CMP.13.  
 5 See https://www.adaptation -fund.org/document/medium -term-strategy -2018 -2022/ .  FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
8  (h) The cumul ative receipts of USD  1,107.40 million, as at 30 June 2021, into the 
Adaptation Fund Trust Fund, comprising USD  208.38 million from the monetization of 
certified emission reductions, USD  858.82 million from contributions and USD  40.21 
million from investme nt income earned on the Trust Fund balance;  
(i) Contributions amounting to USD 200.89 million between 1 July 2019 and 
30 June 2021 from the Governments of Germany, Ireland, Norway, Poland, Spain, Sweden 
and Switzerland, as well as the governments of the Brusse ls-Capital, Flemish and Walloon 
Regions of Belgium; new pledges amounting to USD 116 million from the Governments of 
Germany, Ireland, Italy and Sweden, as well as the governments of the Brussels -Capital and 
Walloon Regions of Belgium, towards the Adaptati on Fund resource mobilization target of 
USD 120 million per year for the biennium 2020 –2021; direct funding of EUR 10 million 
from the European Commission for a programme under the Adaptation Fund Innovation 
Facility; and the transfer of aggregated contrib utions from the United Nations Foundation, 
comprising various individual donations made between 1 July 2019 and 30 June 2020,  
prepared by the Adaptation Fund Board secretariat and the trustee;  
(j) Outstanding pledges of USD 21.85 million as at 30 June 2020 and  outstanding 
contributions of USD 36.27 million as at 30 June 2021;  
(k) The approval of 29 single -country project or programme proposals submitted 
by implementing entities, totalling USD 174 million, of which 9 proposals submitted by 
national implementing enti ties, amounting to USD 14.5 million; 1 single -country proposal 
submitted by a regional implementing entity , amounting to USD 9.9 million; and 19 single -
country proposals submitted by multilateral implementing entities, totalling USD 149.6 
million;  
(l) The reco mmendation of the Project and Programme Review Committee to 
approve nine regional (multi -country) projects amounting to USD 93.9 million, for which 
funding was not readily available for one project from the tentatively set -aside amount, and 
the resulting d ecision of the Adaptation Fund Board to place it on a waitlist, to be approved 
intersessionally subject to the availability of funds;  
(m) The ongoing implementation of activities under the Medium -Term Strategy of 
the Adaptation Fund for 2018 –2022, with the sec ond, third, fourth and fifth review cycles for 
grant funding windows for innovation, learning and project scale -up and the approval by the 
Adaptation Fund Board of the first four small -grant proposals for innovation, the first grant 
proposal for project sc ale-up and two grant proposals for learning, totalling USD 1,348,322; 
and the launch of two new innovation aggregator programmes, totalling USD 10 million, that 
offer small grants for innovation to non -accredited entities via two accredited multilateral 
implementing entities;  
(n) The facilitation of the 2nd meeting of the Committee of the Community of 
Practice for Direct Access Entities, held with the participation of the Green Climate Fund;  
(o) New activities under the Medium -Term Strategy of the Adaptation Fund f or 
2018 –2022, including the approval of large grants for innovation and a funding window for 
enhanced direct access; the endorsement of the principles of locally led adaptation action 
following engagement  with the Global Commission; and the launch of the Adaptation Fund 
Climate Innovation Accelerator;  
(p) The launch of a virtual learning course on unlocking adaptation finance and 
accessing the Adaptation Fund;  
(q) The approval of funding decisions for readiness gr ants amounting to 
USD  234,820, consisting of South –South cooperation grants and technical assistance grants 
for the environmental and social safeguards policy and the gender policy; and a new readiness 
support package grant window following a successful pi lot phase;  
(r) The organization of virtual readiness events for accredited national 
implementing entities, including two webinars on project development, a global accreditation 
training workshop and a country exchange for South –South learning;  FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
 9 (s) Cumulative disbu rsements to the 121 projects approved since the 
operationalization of the Adaptation Fund amounting to USD  485.9 million, including 
USD  76.2 million disbursed between 1 July 2020 and 30 June 2021;  
(t) The implementation of proactive measures to support Parties  and 
implementing entities in mitigating the effects of the pandemic and minimizing any related 
disruption, and to mitigate the impact on the portfolio of the Adaptation Fund ; 
(u) The issuance of targeted communication and messaging on themes such as the 
uniqu e value of the pioneering scalable work of the Adaptation Fund, the implementation of 
the Medium -Term Strategy of the Adaptation Fund for 2018 –2022, the response of the 
Adaptation Fund to the pandemic and the value of the Adaptation Fund in building broade r 
resilience;  
(v) The promotion of linkages of the Adaptation Fund with other bodies under the 
Convention, such as the Adaptation Committee, the Climate Technology Centre and 
Network, the Global Environment Facility, the Green Climate Fund, the Paris Committee  on 
Capacity -building and the Standing Committee on Finance – the Adaptation Fund Board held 
discussions on linkages between the Adaptation Fund and the Green Climate Fund, including 
through a framework for promoting the scaling up of funded projects and t he Community of 
Practice for Direct Access Entities;  
(w) Policy decisions regarding project approval and implementation, including to 
streamline the project and programme review process, to update the policy for project and 
programme delays and to make readine ss grants available throughout the year by including 
an additional review cycle;  
(x) The approval of the updated Adaptation Fund gender policy and action plan 
and application of the updated Adaptation Fund project performance report template by 
implementing entities to track progress more systematically;  
(y) Consideration of options for furth er enhancing civil society participation and 
engagement in Adaptation Fund work;  
(z) The implementation of activities of the Technical Evaluation Reference Group 
of the Adaptation Fund as the basis for developing and approving its multi -year strategy and 
work programme and corresponding two -year budget, including evaluative activities as part 
of the multi -year strategy and work programme approved by the Adaptation Fund Board, 
such as the revision of the Adaptation Fund evaluation framework and the midterm revie w 
of the Medium -Term Strategy of the Adaptation Fund for 2018 –2022;6 
3. Welcomes with appreciation  the decision of the Adaptation Fund Board to increase 
the finance access cap per country from USD 10 million to USD 20 million and the number 
of accredited nat ional implementing entities per eligible developing country Party from one 
to two;  
4. Welcomes  the financial pledges to the Adaptation Fund made by the European 
Commission, the Governments of Canada, Finland, Germany, Ireland, Norway, Qatar,  Spain, 
Sweden, S witzerland, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the 
United States of America, as well as the governments of the Brussels -Capital, Flemish and 
Walloon Regions of Belgium and the provincial government of Quebec, equivalent to 
USD  356 million;  
5. Reiterates the encouragement to scale up financial resources, including the provision 
of voluntary support, that are additional to the share of proceeds levied on certified emission 
reductions in order to support the resource mobilization efforts  of the Adaptation Fund Board 
with a view to strengthening the Adaptation Fund;7 
6. Confirms  that developing country Parties to the Paris Agreement that are particularly 
vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change are eligible for funding from the 
 
 6 See Adaptation Fund Board document AFB/EFC.28/7. Available at https://www.adaptation -
fund.org/document/mid -term-review -of-the-medium -term-strategy -of-the-adaptation -fund/ .  
 7 Decision 3/CMP.15, para. 5.   FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
10  Adaptation Fund and requests  the Adaptation Fund Board to amend the relevant operational 
policies and guidelines, as well as its strategic priorities, policies and guidelines accordingly;  
7. Confirms  that Parties to the Paris Agreement are eligible for membersh ip on the 
Adaptation Fund Board and requests  the Adaptation Fund Board to amend the relevant 
procedures and modalities;  
8. Also requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to continue its consideration 
of matters relating to membership of the Adaptation Fund Board further to decision 
1/CMP.14, paragraph 5, and to forward a recommendation to the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol for consideration at its next 
session;  
9. Welcomes  the operationalization of the  fast-track accreditation process on the basis of 
operational complementarities between the Adaptation Fund and the Green Climate Fund;  
10. Takes note  of the findings from the midterm review of the Medium -Term Strategy of 
the Adaptation Fund for 2018 –2022 and underlines  the relevance, niche function and 
ambition of the Adaptation Fund in contributing to the implementation of adaptation action 
in a timely manner;  
11. Requests  the Adaptation Fund Board, in line with its existing mandate and decision 
1/CMP.3, to cons ider providing support for country -driven adaptation projects and 
programmes in developing countries with a view to contributing to enhancing 
implementation of their national adaptation plans and other voluntary adaptation planning 
processes;  
12. Notes the importance of finalizing  the draft resource mobilization strategy of the 
Adaptation Fund for 2021 –2024 in order to encourage  mobilization of resources for the Fund.  
10th plenary meeting  
13 November 2021FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
 11 Decision 4/CMP.16  
Fourth review of the Adaptation Fund  
 The Conference  of the Parties  serving  as the meeting  of the Parties  to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
 Recalling  decisions  1/CMP.3,  6/CMP.6,  2/CMP.9,  2/CMP.10  and 1/CMP.14,  
 Also recalling  decision  1/CP.21,  
 Further  recalling  decision  13/CMA. 1, 
1. Decides  that the fourth  review  of the Adaptation  Fund  will be undertaken  in 
accordance  with decision 1/CMP.3, paragraph 33, and the terms  of reference  contained  in 
the annex;  
2. Requests  the Adaptation  Fund  Board  to make  available  in its report  to the 
Conference of  the Parties  serving  as the meeting  of the Parties  to the Kyoto  Protocol  at its 
seventeenth session  (November 2022) and the Conference  of the Parties  serving  as the 
meeting  of the Parties  to the Paris Agreement  at its fourth  session  (November  2022)  
information  on the financial  status  of the Adaptation  Fund,  including  information  on the 
share  of proceeds  levied  on first international transfers  of assigned  amount  units  and 
emission  reduction  units  for Article  6 projects  of the Kyoto  Protocol,  in accordance  with 
decision  1/CMP.8,  paragraph  21, with a view  to the fourth  review  of the Adaptation  Fund  
being  finalized  at the same  session;  
3. Invites  Parties to the Kyoto Protocol, Parties to the Paris Agreement and  observer  
organizations,  as well as other  interested  international organizations,  stakeholders  and non-
governmental  organizations  involved  in the activities  of the  Adaptation  Fund,  and 
implementing  entities  accredited  by the Adaptation  Fund Board,  to submit  their  views  on 
the fourth  review  of the Adaptation  Fund  based  on the terms of  reference  set out in the 
annex  via the submission  portal1 by 31 March  2022  for consideration  by the Subsidiary  
Body  for Implementation  at its fifty-sixth  session  (June 2022);  
4. Takes  note of decision  13/CMA.1, stating that  the Adaptation  Fund  shall  serve  
under  the guidance  of, and be accountable  to, the Conference  of the Parties  serving  as the 
meeting  of the Parties  to the Paris Agreement  with respect  to all matters  relating  to the 
Paris Agreement,  effective  1 January  2019,  subject  to the decision2 on this matter  made  by 
the Conference of  the Parties  serving  as the meeting  of the Parties  to the Kyoto  Protocol 
and notes  decision 1/CMP.14, in which it decided, inter alia,  to ensure  that developing  
country Parties and developed country  Parties  that are Parties  to the Paris  Agreement  are 
eligible  for membership  on the Adaptation  Fund  Board;  
5. Requests  the secretariat,  in collaboration  with the Adaptation  Fund  Board  
secretariat, to  prepare  a technical  paper  on the fourth  review  of the Adaptation  Fund,  in 
accordance  with the  terms  of reference  set out in the  annex,  taking  into account  the 
deliberations  and conclusions  of the Subsidiary  Body  for Implementation  at its fifty-sixth  
session  and the submissions  referred  to in paragraph  3 above , for consideration  by the 
Subsidiary  Body  for Implementation  at its fifty-seventh  session  (November  2022);  
6. Also requests  the Subsidiary  Body  for Implementation  to complete  its work  on the 
fourth  review  of the Adaptation  Fund  at its fifty-seventh  session, while welcoming the 
participation of Parties to the Paris Agreement,  with a view  to recommending  a draft  
decision  on the matter  for consideration  and adoption  by the Conference  of the Parties  
serving  as the meeting  of the Parties  to the Kyoto  Protocol at its seventeenth  session;  
7. Invites  the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Paris Agreement to consider the outcomes of the review at its fourth session.
 
 1 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx .  
 2 Decision 1/CMP.14.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
12  Annex  
  Terms of reference for the fourth review of the Adaptation 
Fund  
I. Objective  
1. The objective  of the fourth  review  of the Adaptation  Fund  is to ensure  the 
effectiveness,  sustainability  and adequacy  of the Fund  and its operations.   
II. Scope  
2. The scope  of the review  will cover  the progress  made  to date and lessons  learned  in 
the operationalization  and implementation  of the Fund  and it will focus  on, inter  alia: 
(a) The provision of sustainable,  predictable,  accessible  and adequate  financial 
resources  and the mobilization  of financial  resources  to fund  concrete  adaptation  projects  
and programmes  that are country driven  and based  on the needs,  views  and priorities  of 
developing  country  Parties;  
(b) Lessons learned  from:  
(i) The application of the access  modalities  of the Adaptation  Fund,  including  
its operational  policies  and guidel ines,  including  its Streamlined  Accreditation  
Process;  
(ii) The project approval  procedures  of the Adaptation  Fund  and timeliness  of 
disbursement  of approved  adaptation  grants;  
(iii) The results and impacts  of approved  adaptation  projects  and programmes;  
(iv) The readiness programme  for direct  access  to climate  finance,  including 
lessons  learned  from  South –South  cooperation  and enhanced  direct  access  grants;  
(v) The programme for regional projects;  
(vi) The Innovation Facility;  
(c) Programming and project  coherence  and comple mentarity  between  the 
Adaptation  Fund  and other  institutions  funding  adaptation  projects  and programmes,  in 
particular  institutions  under  the Convention  and the operating  entities  of the Financial 
Mechanism  and its specialized  funds;  
(d) The institutional arrangements  for the Adaptation  Fund,  in particular  the 
arrangements  with the interim  secretariat  and the interim  trustee.  
III. Sources  of information  
3. The review  shall  draw  upon,  inter  alia, the following  sources  of information:  
(a) Submissions from  Parties  to the Kyoto  Protocol,  Parties  to the Paris 
Agreement,  observer  organizations,  other  interested  international  organizations, 
stakeholders  and non-governmental  organizations  involved  in the activities  of the 
Adaptation Fund,  as well as implementing  entities  accredited  by the Adaptation  Fund  
Board,  on their experience  regarding  the Adaptation  Fund;  
(b) The annual  reports  of the Global  Environment  Facility  (GEF)  to the 
Conference  of the Parties  (COP)  on its activities  as an operating  entity  of the Financial 
Mechanism,  including  the information  on the Least  Developed  Countries  Fund  and the FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
 13 Special  Climate  Change  Fund,  and other  relevant  GEF  policy,  information  and evaluation 
documents;  
(c) The annual reports  of the Green  Climate  Fund  (GCF)  to the COP  on its 
activities  as an operating  entity  of the Financial  Mechanism  and other  relevant  GCF  policy 
and information  documents;  
(d) The report of the Adaptation  Fund  Board  to the Conference of  the Parties  
serving  as the meeting  of the Parties  to the Kyoto  Protocol,  the Adaptation  Fund annual  
performance  report  for the most  recent  fiscal  year and the outcomes  of previous reviews  
of the Adaptation  Fund;  
(e) The outcomes and reports  emanating  from  United  Nations  processes,  
relevant bilateral  and multilateral  funding  institutions  and other  intergovernmental  and 
non-governmental  organizations  dealing  with climate  change  financing;  
(f) The reports  of the relevant  constituted  bodies;   
(g) The reports on the work  programme  on long-term  finance;1 
(h) The technical paper and summary for policymakers arising from the technical 
examination process on adaptation in 2020;  
(i) The reports on the independent evaluation of the Adaptation Fund (phase two) 
and the midterm review of the implementation of t he Medium -Term Strategy of the 
Adaptation Fund  for 2018 –2022 .2  
10th plenary meeting  
13 November 2021
 
 1 FCCC/CP/2012/3 and FCCC/CP/2013/7.  
 2 Available at https://www.adaptation -fund.org/document/management -response -overall -evaluation -
fund-second -phase -action -plan/  and https://www.adaptation -fund.org/document/mid -term-review -of-
the-medium -term-strategy -of-the-adaptation -fund/ , respectively.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
14  Decision 5/CMP.16  
Fourth comprehensive review of the implementation of the 
framework for capacity -building in developing countries 
under the Kyoto Protocol  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol,  
  Recalling  decisions 29/CMP.1, 6/CMP.4, 15/CMP.7, 6/CMP.12, 2/CP.7, 2/CP.17 and 
10/CP.25,  
1. Notes with appreciation  the continued progress in the implementation of the 
framework for capacity -building in developing countries established under decisio n 2/CP.7 
(hereinafter referred to as the capacity -building framework), demonstrated by the increase in 
capacity -building activities undertaken by a growing range of bodies and practitioners under 
and outside the Convention during the period covered by the fourth comprehensive review 
of the implementation of the capacity -building framework under the Kyoto Protocol (2017 –
2021);  
2. Recognizes  that, while the objective and scope of capacity -building in developing 
countries as set out in decision 2/CP.7 and the pri ority areas as contained in decision 
29/CMP.1 are still relevant, current and emerging areas in the context of the Kyoto Protocol 
should also be taken into account in the further implementation of the capacity -building 
framework under the Kyoto Protocol;  
3. Welcomes  the Durban Forum on capacity -building as one of the key modalities that 
have enhanced progress in implementing the capacity -building framework under the Kyoto 
Protocol;  
4. Also welcomes  the wide range of capacity -building activities undertaken by 
constituted bodies under the Kyoto Protocol, the increased coherence and collaboration 
between bodies, the practice of building and improving on previous work where useful, and 
the collaboration with relevant stakeholders;  
5. Emphasizes  the value of strengtheni ng the participation of relevant stakeholders, 
including non -State actors, in undertaking capacity -building activities;  
6. Notes  that, while progress has been made, gaps and needs remain in addressing the 
priority areas as contained in decision 29/CMP.1;  
7. Invites Parties to foster networking and enhance their collaboration with academia and 
research centres with a view to promoting individual, institutional  and systemic capacity -
building through education, training and public awareness;  
8. Notes the importanc e of sharing examples of best practices and lessons learned among 
Parties and capacity -building practitioners;  
9. Emphasizes the importance of building long -term capacity in developing countries, 
including by promoting strong domestic enabling environments;  
10. Notes  that monitoring and reviewing the impacts of capacity -building remains 
challenging and needs to be conducted in specific contexts to better assess progress and 
evaluate the effectiveness of capacity -building activities ;  
11. Recognizes the importance of  continuing to identify and disseminate lessons learned 
to enhance the implementation of capacity -building activities, including through the Durban 
Forum;  
12. Invites  Parties to cooperate in order to enhance the capacity of developing countries 
to implement the Kyoto Protocol and also invites  Parties, as appropriate, and other 
stakeholders to continue to provide support for capacity -building actions in developing 
countries;  FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
 15 13. Concludes the f ourth comprehensive review of the implementation  of the capacity -
building  framework  under the Kyoto Protocol;  
14. Requests the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to develop terms of reference for 
the fifth comprehensive review of the implementation of the capa city-building framework  
under the Kyoto Protocol at its sixty -second session (2025) for consideration and adoption 
by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  
at its twentieth session (2025);  
15. Also requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to initiate the fifth 
comprehensive review of the implementation of the capacity -building framework  under the 
Kyoto Protocol at its sixty -fourth session (2026) with a view to the Conference of the Parties 
serving as t he meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  concluding it at its twenty -first 
session (2026).  
9th plenary meeting  
11 November 2021FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
16  Decision 6/CMP.16  
Fifth review of the implementation of the framework for 
capacity -building in countries with economies in transition 
under the Kyoto Protocol  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Part ies to the Kyoto 
Protocol ,  
  Recalling  decisions 3/CP.7, 3/CP.10, 30/CMP.1, 11/CMP.8 and 4/CMP.13,  
  Acknowledging  that capacity -building for countries with economies in transition is 
essential to enabling them to implement effectively their commitments u nder the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
1. Recognizes  that: 
(a) Significant progress has been made in building the capacity of countries with 
economies in transition  to mitigate climate change, and that some recipients of assistance 
have started to transfer their own expertise,  knowledge and lessons learned on capacity -
building to Parties not included in Annex I to the Convention;  
(b) Parties included in Annex I to the Convention and the Global Environment 
Facility, within its mandate, have provided  adequate resources and assistance for the 
implementation of the framework for capacity -building in countries with economies in 
transition e stablished under decision 3/CP.7 and reaffirmed by decision 30/CMP.1;  
(c) Support was also provided to countries with economies in transition by 
multilateral development banks and international financial institutions;  
(d) Countries with economies in transition t hat are currently receiving support, 
notwithstanding the progress made, are in need of further capacity -building, in particular for 
regularly updating and implementing their emission reduction targets, and for developing and 
implementing national long -term low-emission development strategies consistently with 
their national priorities;  
2. Reaffirms  that the scope of the needs identified in the framework for capacity -building 
in countries with economies in transition  established under decision 3/CP.7 and 30/CM P.1 
and the key factors identified in decision 3/CP.10 remain relevant and continue to be the basis 
for, and guide the implementation of, capacity -building activities in countries with economies 
in transition;  
3. Encourages  the engagement of countries with ec onomies in transition in future 
discussions at the Durban Forum, as appropriate, to explore potential  ways for enhancing 
capacity -building in countries with economies in transition by sharing examples of best 
practices and lessons learned;  
4. Invites  Parties to enhance reporting on best practices related to capacity -building in 
their national communications, biennial reports, submissions and other relevant documents 
with a view to furthering learning and broadening the impact of capacity -building activities 
in countries with economies in transition;  
5. Also invites  Parties included in Annex II to the Convention and other Parties in a 
position to do so, the Global Environment Facility, multilateral and bilateral agencies, 
international organizations, multilateral d evelopment banks, international financial 
institutions and the private sector or any further arrangements, as appropriate and within their 
mandates, to continue to provide support for capacity -building activities in countries with 
economies in transition;  FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
 17 6. Further invites  Parties and relevant institutions to provide information on capacity -
building activities in countries with economies in transition to the secretariat for inclusion on 
the capacity -building portal;1 
7. Decides to conclude the fifth review of the implementation of the framework for 
capacity -building in countries with economies in transition under the Kyoto Protocol and 
requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation, at its sixty -fourth session (2026), to initiat e 
the sixth  review thereof  with a view to the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol concluding it at its twenty -first session (2026);  
8. Also r equests the secretariat to prepare a synthesis report on  the impleme ntation of the 
framework for capacity -building in countries with economies in transition to support the sixth 
review there of for consideration by the Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its sixty -
fourth session .  
9th plenary meeting  
11 November 2021
 
 1 https://unfccc.int/topics/capacity -building/workstreams/capacity -building -portal . FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
18  Decision 7/CMP.16  
Matters relating to the forum on the impact of the 
implementation of response measures  
The Conference of the Parties and the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol , 
Recalling  decisions 7/CP.24, 4/CP.25, 3/CMP.14, 4/CMP.15 and 7/CMA.1,  
1. Welcome  with appreciation  the annual report  of the Katowice Committee of Experts 
on the Impacts of the Implementation of Response Measures (hereinafter referred to as the 
Katowice Committee on Impacts) for 2020 –20211 and the progress of the Katowice 
Committee on Impacts in supporting the work of t he forum on the impact of the 
implementation of response measures (hereinafter referred to as the forum) , noting that, on 
an exceptional basis, the 2020 –2021 annual report was considered before consideration of 
the 2020 annual report and continuation of co nsideration of the 2019 annual report;  
2. Welcome the informal event and technical expert meetings held virtually in 2020 and 
20212 by the Chairs of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice and the 
Subsidiary Body for Implementation, which served as input to the forum’s work on 
implementing the relevant activities in the workplan of the forum and its Katowice 
Commit tee on Impacts ,3 and underscore  the challenges experienced with participating in 
meetings in a virtual setting in 2020 and 2021;  
3. Note  the limitations to progress and limited progress in the implementation of the 
functions and modalities of the forum and o f certain activities in the workplan by the forum, 
including due to the exceptional circumstances, and therefore request  the secretariat to hold 
a two -day workshop in conjunction with the fifty-sixth sessions of the subsidiary bodies (June 
2022)  to further  advance the implementation of workplan activities 3, 4 and 11;  
4. Welcome  the progress made by the Katowice Committee on Impacts in implementing 
the workplan and the inputs of experts, practitioners and relevant organizations to the work 
of the forum and its  Katowice Committee on Impacts;  
5. Adopt the recommendations pertaining to activity 1 of the workplan contained in 
annex I, forwarded by the forum in the 2020 –2021 annual report of the Katowice Committee 
on Impacts , and invite Parties to implement them, as ap plicable;  
6. Adopt  the revised rules of procedure of the Katowice Committee on Impacts  contained 
in annex II;  
7. Recall  decision 7/CMA.1 and the functions of the forum and note that the forum, when 
considering the annual reports of the Katowice Committee on Impa cts and the 
recommendations contained therein, should consider ways to promote actions to minimize 
the adverse impacts and maximize the positive impacts of the implementation of response 
measures ; 
8. Request  the forum, at the fifty-sixth sessions of the subsidiary bodies,  to consider ways 
to promote actions to minimize the adverse impacts and maximize the positive impacts of the 
implementation of response measures  on the recommendations contained in annex I;  
9. Recall  the rules of procedure of the Katowice C ommittee on Impacts4 and encourage  
groups to nominate members to the Katowice Committee on Impacts taking into account the 
goal of achieving gender balance;  
 
 1 Katowice Committee on Impacts  document KCI/2021/4/8. Available at https://unfccc.int/process -and-
meetings/bodies/constituted -bodies/KCI . 
 2 See https://unfccc.int/topics/mitigation/workstreams/response -measures/workshops -and-events .  
 3 Contained in annex II to decisions 4/CP.25, 4/CMP.15 and 4/CMA.2.  
 4 Decision 4/CMA.2, annex I.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
 19 10. Request  the secretariat to organize a regional workshop on activity 3 of the workplan 
before the fifty-sixth sessions of the subsidiary bodies  in collaboration with relevant 
organizations and stakeholders to address regional needs and acknowledge the work that is 
being carried out by the Katowice Committee on Impacts and note that further regional 
work shops on activity 3 could be decided by the forum;  
11. Invite  Parties and observers to submit via the submission portal5 by April 2022 their 
views on the elements of the midterm review of the workplan of the forum and its Katowice 
Committee on Impacts  and request  the secretariat to prepare a summary o f the submissions 
with a view to informing Parties’ discussion on the midt erm review starting at the fifty -sixth 
sessions of the subsidiary bodies;6 
12. Take  note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 3 and 11 above ; 
13. Request  that the actions of the se cretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
 
 5 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx . 
 6 As per decision  19/CMA.1, para. 24.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
20  Annex I  
Recommendations forwarded by the forum pertaining to 
activity 1 of the workplan: exploring approaches to inform 
the development and implementation of climate change 
mitigation strategies, plans, policies and programmes that 
maximize the positive an d minimize the negative impacts of 
response measures  
1. Encourage Parties to engage relevant stakeholders at each step of the process of 
designing and implementing climate mitigation policies and policies to achieve sustainable 
development , including through social dialogue, when possible and subject to national 
circumstances. The relevant stakeholders among others include workers, employers, 
organizations, academia,  the public and private sectors, women and civil society.  
2. Encourage Parties to explore compleme ntary policies, such as economic policies, 
social protection and labour policies, to help strengthen the outcomes of the implementation 
of mitigation strategies, plans, policies and programmes , including nationally determined 
contributions and low -emission  development strategies.  
3. Encourage Parties to strengthen international and regional cooperation as it 
contributes to planning and implementation of mitigation policies with environmental and 
socioeconomic benefits, for example to help facilitate technology  development and transfer 
in accordance with Article 10 of the Paris Agreement, and strive towards harmonized regional 
approaches.  
4. Encourage Parties to use existing qualitative and quantitative assessment 
methodologies and tools to understand social, econo mic and employment effects of proposed 
mitigation measures as a way to inform and guide climate policies and to maximize the 
positive and minimize the negative effects of the implementation of response measures. More 
analysis of impacts, including, inter a lia, sectoral, national, subnational, domestic and cross 
border, would be useful for informing climate policies and understanding how to maximize 
the positive and minimize the negative effects of the implementation of response measures.  
5. Encourage the forum  and its Katowice Committee of Experts on the Impacts of the 
Implementation of Response Measures  to enhance the capacity of Parties, particularly 
developing country Parties, through training and capacity -building efforts, including existing 
initiatives. Th is will enable Parties to carry out their own assessments and analyses of the 
impacts of response measures.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
 21 Annex II  
Revised rules of procedure of the Katowice Committee of 
Experts on the Impacts of the Implementation of Response 
Measures  
I. Scope  
1. These rules of procedure shall apply to the Katowice Committee of Experts on the 
Impacts of the Implementation of Response Measures (KCI) in accordance with decision 
7/CMA .1 and its annex.  
II. Mandate  
2. The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement (CMA), by decision 7/CMA.1, decided to establish the KCI to support the work 
of the forum on the impact of the implementation of response m easures in implementing its 
work programme and operating in accordance with the terms of reference contained in the 
annex to that decision.  
3. The forum and the KCI may use the following modalities, as appropriate and as 
decided on a case -by-case basis, to c arry out the work programme of the forum:  
(a) Building awareness and enhancing information -sharing through the exchange 
and sharing of experience and best practices;  
(b) Preparing technical papers, case studies, specific examples and guidelines;  
(c) Receiving inputs from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations;  
(d) Organizing workshops.  
III. Members  
4. The CMA, by decision 7/CMA.1, decided that the KCI shall be composed of 14 
members, of which:  
(a) Two members from each of the five United Nations regional groups;  
(b) One member from the least developed countries;  
(c) One member from the small island developing States;  
(d) Two members from relevant intergovernmental organizations.1  
5. By the same decision, the CMA also decided that members shall be nominated by 
their res pective groups. Groups are encouraged to nominate members taking into account the 
goal of achieving gender balance. The Chairs of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and 
Technological Advice (SBSTA) and the Subsidiary Body for Implementation (SBI) shall be 
notified of these appointments.2  
6. The CMA further  decided that members shall serve in their expert capacity and should 
have relevant qualifications and expertise in the technical and socioeconomic fields related 
to the areas of the work programme of the f orum.3 
 
 1 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(b).  
 2 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(d).   
 3 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(c).  FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
22  7. Further, the CMA decided that members shall serve a term of two years and be eligible 
to serve a maximum of two consecutive terms in office.4 The following rules shall apply:  
(a) Half of the members shall be nominated initially for a term of three ye ars and 
half of the members for a term of two years;  
(b) Thereafter, members are nominated for a term of two years;  
(c) The members shall remain in office until their successors are nominated. In 
such a case, the KCI shall notify the Chairs of the SBSTA and the SBI. 
8. The term of office of a member shall commence at the first meeting of the KCI in the 
calendar year of their appointment and end immediately before the first meeting of the KCI 
in the calendar year after their second calendar year5 in office.  
9. If a mem ber of the KCI resigns or is otherwise unable to complete the assigned term 
of office or to perform the functions of that office, the KCI shall request the group that 
nominated the member to nominate another member for the remainder of the unexpired term, 
in which case the appointment shall count as one term. In such a case, the KCI shall notify 
the Chairs of the SBSTA and the SBI.  
10. If a member is unable to participate in two consecutive meetings of the KCI or unable 
to perform the functions and tasks set by  the KCI, the Co -Chairs of the KCI will bring this 
matter to the attention of the KCI and seek clarification from the group that nominated that 
member on the status of their membership.  
IV. Conflict of interest  
11. The KCI members must promptly disclose, and recus e themselves from, any 
deliberations or decision -making that could have a bearing on their personal or financial 
interests, in order to avoid a conflict of interest or the appearance of one. Further, KCI 
members shall not disclose any information deemed by  the KCI as confidential that they 
receive in the course of their duties, even after leaving the KCI. 
V. Co-Chairs  
12. The CMA decided that the KCI shall elect, on a consensus basis, two members from 
among its members to serve as Co -Chairs for a term of two years each, taking into account 
the need to ensure equitable geographical representation.6 
13. The CMA also decided that  if one of the Co -Chairs is temporarily unable to fulfil the 
obligations of the office, another member designated by the KCI shall serve as Co -Chair.7 
14. If one of the Co -Chairs is unable to complete the term of office, the KCI shall elect a 
replacement from  among its members of the relevant group of the incumbent Co -Chair, if 
available, to complete that term of office.  
15. The Co -Chairs shall collaborate in chairing meetings of the KCI and in facilitating the 
work of the KCI throughout the year, in accordance wi th the workplan of the forum and its 
KCI, to ensure coherence between meetings.  
16. Following the completion of the Co -Chairs’ two -year term of office, the KCI shall 
nominate two members as Co -Chairs to serve the next two -year term of office.  
17. The Co -Chairs sha ll declare the opening and closing of meetings of the KCI, ensure 
the observance of these rules of procedure and rule on points of order.  
 
 4 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(e).  
 5 Third calendar year for members serving an initial term of three years in accordance with para . 7(a) 
above . 
 6 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(f).  
 7 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(g).  FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
 23 18. The Co -Chairs shall call upon speakers at meetings of the KCI in the order in which 
they signify their desire to speak . The secretariat shall maintain a list of speakers. The Co -
Chairs may call a speaker to order if their remarks are not relevant to the subject under 
discussion.  
19. The KCI may further define additional roles and responsibilities for the Co -Chairs.  
20. In exerci sing their functions, the Co -Chairs shall remain under the authority of the 
KCI.  
VI. Secretariat  
21. The secretariat shall support and facilitate the work of the KCI, by:  
(a) Making the necessary arrangements for the meetings of the KCI, including 
announcing meetings , issuing invitations, making the necessary travel arrangements for 
members eligible for funding for their participation in meetings and making available 
relevant documents for meetings;  
(b) Maintaining meeting records and arranging for the storage and preserv ation of 
documents of meetings of the KCI;  
(c) Making documents of meetings of the KCI available to the public, unless 
otherwise decided by the KCI.  
22. The secretariat shall assist the KCI in tracking its actions, in accordance with the 
workplan of the forum and its KCI, in its annual report.  
23. In addition, the secretariat shall perform any other functions assigned by the KCI, in 
accordance with the workplan of the forum and its KCI.  
VII. Meetings  
24. The KCI shall meet twice per year, for two days per meeting, in conjuncti on with the 
sessions of the subsidiary bodies.  
25. At least nine members of the KCI must be present to constitute a quorum.  
26. Members are requested to confirm their attendance at meetings of the KCI as early as 
possible, and at least four weeks prior to a meetin g for members eligible for funding for their 
participation, to enable sufficient time for the secretariat to make the necessary travel 
arrangements.  
27. Should technical and financial resources permit, open meetings of the KCI shall be 
webcast on the UNFCCC we bsite.  
28. At each of its meetings, the KCI shall propose the dates of its next meeting. The Co -
Chairs will agree the dates of the next meeting in consultation with the secretariat.  
VIII.  Agenda and documentation for meetings  
29. The Co -Chairs, assisted by the secretariat, shall prepare the provisional agenda and 
provisional annotated agenda for each meeting of the KCI in accordance with the workplan 
of the forum and its KCI. The Co -Chairs will prepare a report on the meeting, to b e agreed 
by members, and this will be made available on the UNFCCC website. The Co -Chairs will 
report back to the forum on the meeting of the KCI.  
30. The provisional agenda and provisional annotated agenda for each meeting shall be 
transmitted to the members  of the KCI at least four weeks in advance of the meeting.  
31. Members may propose additions or changes to the provisional agenda and provisional 
annotated agenda, in writing, to the secretariat within one week of receiving the documents, FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
24  and these additions or changes shall be considered for a revised provisional agenda and 
provisional annotated agenda by the secretariat in agreement with the Co -Chairs.  
32. The secretariat shall transmit the provisional agenda and provisional annotated agenda 
and any supporting documentation to the members at least two weeks prior to a meeting. 
Documents may be transmitted after that date with the approval of the Co -Chairs.  
33. Documents for a meeting shall be published on the UNFCCC website at least two 
weeks prior to that meeting,  to the extent possible.  
34. The KCI shall, at the beginning of each meeting, adopt the agenda for that meeting.  
35. The CMA decided that members of the KCI shall prepare an annual report for 
consideration by the forum with a view to making recommendations for co nsideration by the 
SBSTA and the SBI, which, in turn, are to recommend actions to the Conference of the 
Parties (COP), the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol (CMP) and the CMA for their consideration and a doption.8  
36. The annual report shall be made available on the UNFCCC website before the relevant 
sessions of the COP, the CMP and the CMA.  
IX. Decision -making  
37. The CMA decided that the KCI shall operate on the basis of consensus of its 
members.9 
38. The KCI may use  electronic means to facilitate its work, as appropriate and in 
accordance with the workplan of the forum and its KCI.  
X. Working language  
39. The working language of the KCI shall be English.  
XI. Participation of expert advisers in meetings  
40. The KCI, in fulfilling  its mandate, should draw upon outside expertise at its meetings.  
41. The Co -Chairs may, in consultation with the KCI, invite representatives of 
international organizations, the private sector, academia and/or civil society to participate in 
a meetin g of the KCI as expert advisers on specific issues under consideration at the meeting.  
XII. Participation of observers  
42. The CMA decided  that meetings of the KCI shall be open to attendance as observers 
by all Parties and accredited observer organizations, unless  otherwise decided by the KCI.10  
43. The KCI may decide to close a meeting or part thereof to observers at any time.  
44. The secretariat shall make the dates and venues of the meetings available to the public 
to enable participation by observers.  
45. Observers may, with the agreement of the KCI, be invited to address the KCI on 
matters under consideration by the KCI. The Co -Chairs shall notify the KCI one week in 
advance of the meeting of any proposed interventions by observers.  
46. The KCI may request interventions from  observers throughout the meeting, as 
appropriate.  
 
 8 Decision  7/CMA.1, para. 12, and annex, para. 4(j).  
 9 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(i).  
 10 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(h).   FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
 25 XIII.  Use of electronic means of communication  
47. The KCI shall use electronic means of communication to facilitate intersessional 
work , as appropriate and in accordance with the workplan  of the forum and its KCI . The 
secretariat shall ensure that a secure and dedicated web interface is established and 
maintained to facilitate the work of the KCI.  
XIV.  Working groups  
48. The KCI may establish work ing groups among its members to support the forum in 
performing its functions. The working groups may receive inputs from experts, practitioners 
and relevant organizations in accordance with the workplan of the forum and its KCI and in 
line with paragraphs  40–41 above.  
XV. Workplan  
49. The KCI will support the work of the forum in line with the workplan of the forum 
and its KCI.  
XVI.  Amendments to the rules of procedure  
50. The KCI may recommend amendments to these rules of procedure for consideration 
by the forum and appro val by the subsidiary bodies.  
51. Proposals and amendments to proposals for the rules of procedure may be introduced 
and submitted to the secretariat in writing by KCI members; such proposals and amendments 
shall be circulated for consideration by all members of the KCI.  
52. No proposal for the rules of procedure shall be discussed or put forward for a decision 
at any meeting unless copies have been circulated to the KCI members no later than two 
weeks before the meeting.  
XVII.  Overriding authority of the Convention, th e Kyoto 
Protocol and the Paris Agreement  
53. In the event of a conflict between any provision of these rules and any provision of 
the Convention, the Kyoto Protocol or the Paris Agreement, the provision of the Convention, 
the Kyoto Protocol or the Paris Agreem ent shall take precedence.  
Document information  
Version  Description  
Version 2  Revision of paragraph 7 and addition of paragraph 11  
Version 1  Adopted by decisions 4/CP.25, 4/CMA.15 and 4/CMA.2  
10th plenary meeting  
13 November 2021FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
26  Decision 8/CMP.16  
Programme budget for the biennium 2022 –2023  
The Conference of the Parties  serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Recalling  Article 13, paragraph 5, of the Kyoto Protocol,  
Taking note  of decision 22/CP.26  on the programme budget for the biennium 2022 –
2023, in particular paragraph 1,  
Having considered  the pro posed programme budget for the biennium 2022 –2023 
prepared by the Executive Secretary,1 
1. Endorses  decision 22/CP.26  on the programme budget for the biennium 2022 –2023 
as it applies to the Kyoto Protocol;  
2. Adopts  the indicative scale of contributions contained in the annex;  
3. Notes  that the indicative scale of contributions covers 11 per cent of the contributions 
specified in table 1 of the decision referred to in paragraph 1 above ; 
4. Invites  all Parties to the Kyoto Protocol to note that each Party shall, prior to 1 January 
of each year, inform the secretariat of the contribution it intends to make that year and of the 
projected timing of that contribution in accordance with paragraph 8(a) of the UNFCCC 
financial procedures,2 and that contributions to the core budget are due on 1 January of each 
year in accordance with paragraph 8(b) of the financial procedures, and to pay promptly and 
in full, for each of the years 2022 and 2023, the contributions required to fin ance the 
expenditures approved in paragraph 1 above ; 
5. Takes note  of the funding arrangements for the clean development mechanism and 
joint implementation.   
 
 1 FCCC/SBI/2021/4 and Add.1 –2. 
 2 Decision 15/CP.1, annex I.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
 27 Annex  
Indicative scale of contributions from Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol for 2022 –2023  
Party  United Nations scale 
of assessments for 
2019–2021  Kyoto Protocol 
adjusted scale for 
2022–2023  
Afghanistan  0.007  0.009  
Albania  0.008  0.010  
Algeria  0.138  0.179  
Angola  0.010  0.013  
Antigua and Barbuda  0.002  0.003  
Argentina  0.915  1.186  
Armenia  0.007  0.009  
Australia  2.210  2.863  
Austria  0.677  0.877  
Azerbaijan  0.049  0.063  
Bahamas  0.018  0.023  
Bahrain  0.050  0.065  
Bangladesh  0.010  0.013  
Barbados  0.007  0.009  
Belarus  0.049  0.063  
Belgium  0.821  1.064  
Belize  0.001  0.001  
Benin  0.003  0.004  
Bhutan  0.001  0.001  
Bolivia (Plurinational State of)  0.016  0.021  
Bosnia and Herzegovina  0.012  0.016  
Botswana  0.014  0.018  
Brazil  2.948  3.820  
Brunei Darussalam  0.025  0.032  
Bulgaria  0.046  0.060  
Burkina Faso  0.003  0.004  
Burundi  0.001  0.001  
Cabo Verde  0.001  0.001  
Cambodia  0.006  0.008  
Cameroon  0.013  0.017  
Central African Republic  0.001  0.001  
Chad  0.004  0.005  
Chile  0.407  0.527  
China  12.005  15.555  
Colombia  0.288  0.373  
Comoros  0.001  0.001  
Congo  0.006  0.008  
Cook Islands  0.000  0.001  
Costa Rica  0.062  0.080  
Côte d’Ivoire  0.013  0.017  
Croatia  0.077  0.100  
Cuba  0.080  0.104  
Cyprus  0.036  0.047  
Czechia  0.311  0.403  
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea  0.006  0.008  
Democratic Republic of the Congo  0.010  0.013  
Denmark  0.554  0.718  
Djibouti  0.001  0.001  
Dominica  0.001  0.001  FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
28  Party  United Nations scale 
of assessments for 
2019–2021  Kyoto Protocol 
adjusted scale for 
2022–2023  
Dominican Republic  0.053  0.069  
Ecuador  0.080  0.104  
Egypt  0.186  0.241  
El Salvador  0.012  0.016  
Equatorial Guinea  0.016  0.021  
Eritrea  0.001  0.001  
Estonia  0.039  0.051  
Eswatini  0.002  0.003  
Ethiopia  0.010  0.013  
European Union  0.000  2.500  
Fiji 0.003  0.004  
Finland  0.421  0.545  
France  4.427  5.736  
Gabon  0.015  0.019  
Gambia  0.001  0.001  
Georgia  0.008  0.010  
Germany  6.090  7.891  
Ghana  0.015  0.019  
Greece  0.366  0.474  
Grenada  0.001  0.001  
Guatemala  0.036  0.047  
Guinea  0.003  0.004  
Guinea -Bissau  0.001  0.001  
Guyana  0.002  0.003  
Haiti  0.003  0.004  
Honduras  0.009  0.012  
Hungary  0.206  0.267  
Iceland  0.028  0.036  
India  0.834  1.081  
Indonesia  0.543  0.704  
Iran (Islamic Republic of)  0.398  0.516  
Iraq 0.129  0.167  
Ireland  0.371  0.481  
Israel  0.490  0.635  
Italy 3.307  4.285  
Jamaica  0.008  0.010  
Japan  8.564  11.096  
Jordan  0.021  0.027  
Kazakhstan  0.178  0.231  
Kenya  0.024  0.031  
Kiribati  0.001  0.001  
Kuwait  0.252  0.327  
Kyrgyzstan  0.002  0.003  
Lao People’s Democratic Republic  0.005  0.006  
Latvia  0.047  0.061  
Lebanon  0.047  0.061  
Lesotho  0.001  0.001  
Liberia  0.001  0.001  
Libya  0.030  0.039  
Liechtenstein  0.009  0.012  
Lithuania  0.071  0.092  
Luxembourg  0.067  0.087  
Madagascar  0.004  0.005  
Malawi  0.002  0.003  
Malaysia  0.341  0.442  
Maldives  0.004  0.005  FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
 29 Party  United Nations scale 
of assessments for 
2019–2021  Kyoto Protocol 
adjusted scale for 
2022–2023  
Mali  0.004  0.005  
Malta  0.017  0.022  
Marshall Islands  0.001  0.001  
Mauritania  0.002  0.003  
Mauritius  0.011  0.014  
Mexico  1.292  1.674  
Micronesia (Federated States of)  0.001  0.001  
Monaco  0.011  0.014  
Mongolia  0.005  0.006  
Montenegro  0.004  0.005  
Morocco  0.055  0.071  
Mozambique  0.004  0.005  
Myanmar  0.010  0.013  
Namibia  0.009  0.012  
Nauru  0.001  0.001  
Nepal  0.007  0.009  
Netherlands  1.356  1.757  
New Zealand  0.291  0.377  
Nicaragua  0.005  0.006  
Niger  0.002  0.003  
Nigeria  0.250  0.324  
Niue  0.000  0.001  
North Macedonia  0.007  0.009  
Norway  0.754  0.977  
Oman  0.115  0.149  
Pakistan  0.115  0.149  
Palau  0.001  0.001  
Panama  0.045  0.058  
Papua New Guinea  0.010  0.013  
Paraguay  0.016  0.021  
Peru 0.152  0.197  
Philippines  0.205  0.266  
Poland  0.802  1.039  
Portugal  0.350  0.453  
Qatar  0.282  0.365  
Republic of Korea  2.267  2.937  
Republic of Moldova  0.003  0.004  
Romania  0.198  0.257  
Russian Federation  2.405  3.116  
Rwanda  0.003  0.004  
Saint Kitts and Nevis  0.001  0.001  
Saint Lucia  0.001  0.001  
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines  0.001  0.001  
Samoa  0.001  0.001  
San Marino  0.002  0.003  
Sao Tome and Principe  0.001  0.001  
Saudi Arabia  1.172  1.519  
Senegal  0.007  0.009  
Serbia  0.028  0.036  
Seychelles  0.002  0.003  
Sierra Leone  0.001  0.001  
Singapore  0.485  0.628  
Slovakia  0.153  0.198  
Slovenia  0.076  0.098  
Solomon Islands  0.001  0.001  
Somalia  0.001  0.001  FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
30  Party  United Nations scale 
of assessments for 
2019–2021  Kyoto Protocol 
adjusted scale for 
2022–2023  
South Africa  0.272  0.352  
Spain  2.146  2.781  
Sri Lanka  0.044  0.057  
Sudan  0.010  0.013  
Suriname  0.005  0.006  
Sweden  0.906  1.174  
Switzerland  1.151  1.491  
Syrian Arab Republic  0.011  0.014  
Tajikistan  0.004  0.005  
Thailand  0.307  0.398  
Timor -Leste  0.002  0.003  
Togo  0.002  0.003  
Tonga  0.001  0.001  
Trinidad and Tobago  0.040  0.052  
Tunisia  0.025  0.032  
Turkey  1.371  1.776  
Turkmenistan  0.033  0.043  
Tuvalu  0.001  0.001  
Uganda  0.008  0.010  
Ukraine  0.057  0.074  
United Arab Emirates  0.616  0.798  
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland  4.567  5.917  
United Republic of Tanzania  0.010  0.013  
Uruguay  0.087  0.113  
Uzbekistan  0.032  0.041  
Vanuatu  0.001  0.001  
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)  0.728  0.943  
Viet Nam  0.077  0.100  
Yemen  0.010  0.013  
Zambia  0.009  0.012  
Zimbabwe  0.005  0.006  
Total  100.000  100.000  
9th plenary meeting  
11 November 2021FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
 31 Decision 9/CMP.16  
Budget for the international transaction log  
The Conference of the Parties  serving  as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Recalling  Article 13, paragraph 5, of the Kyoto Protocol,  
Also recalling decisions 11/CMP.3, 10/CMP.5, 9/CMP.6 , 8/CMP.8, 8/CMP.11, 
7/CMP.13 and 5/CMP.15,  
Recognizing  the importance of sufficient and stable funding for the international 
transaction log,  
Also recognizing the importance of the proper functioning of the international 
transaction log for the Parties listed in Annex B to the Kyoto Protocol, as contained in 
annex  I to decision 1/CMP.8,  
1. Approves  the budget for the international transaction log for the biennium 2022 –2023, 
amounting to EUR 3,851,948 for the purposes specified in the proposed budget  for the 
international transaction log;1  
2. Decides to maintain the level of the working capital reserve at 8.3 per cent of the 
estimated expenditure for the Trust Fund for the International Transaction Log;  
3. Authorizes the Executive Secretary to draw EUR 2.5 million from unspent balances 
of the Trust Fund for the International Transaction Log from previous financial periods to 
cover part of the budget for the biennium 2022 –2023;  
4. Also authorizes  the Executive Secretary to draw funds from unspent balances of  the 
Trust Fund for the International Transaction Log from previous financial periods to cover the 
potential shortfall in fees due to the disconnection of Parties from the international transaction 
log; 
5. Notes that the action referred to in paragraph 3 abov e is exceptional and is needed to 
disburse the significant unspent funds and recognizes  that fees for the operation of the 
international transaction log are to be levied as necessary in future bienniums;  
6. Notes that any unspent balances of the Trust Fund fo r the International Transaction 
Log from previous financial periods remaining after the actions referred to in paragraphs 3–
4 above  could be used to cover the budget of the international transaction log for future 
bienniums;  
7. Requests  the administrator of t he international transaction log to disclose in its annual 
reports the unspent balance of the Trust Fund for the International Transaction Log from the 
previous biennium as at the time of publication of the annual report;  
8. Adopts  the scale of fees for the i nternational transaction log for the biennium 2022 –
2023 contained in the annex;  
9. Decides  that fees for the international transaction log paid by a Party for the biennium 
2022 –2023 shall be calculated by multiplying the scale of fees for that Party contained  in the 
annex by the budget for the international transaction log for the biennium 2022 –2023 and 
adjusted for Parties currently not connected to the international transaction log, taking into 
account the amount drawn from unspent balances as set out in par agraph 3 above , with the 
balance of fees for the first year of the biennium being equal to the balance of fees for the 
second year of the biennium, as contained in the annex;  
10. Requests  the Executive Secretary to notify Parties connected to the international  
transaction log in the biennium 2022 –2023 of the annual fees, calculated in accordance with 
 
 1  FCCC/SBI/2021/4/Add.2.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
32  paragraph 9 above , as early as possible and at least four months in advance of the relevant 
calendar year, where possible;  
11. Decides  that, if a Party connects to the international transaction log for the first time 
or reconnects to it, the scale of fees for that Party shall be that contained in the annex, or, for 
Parties not listed in the table contained in the annex, shall be made equ al to 130 per cent of 
their Kyoto Protocol adjusted scale for the relevant biennium;  
12. Also decides  that fees paid by a Party that connects to the international transaction log 
for the first time or reconnects to it shall be deducted from the resource requir ement for 
activities relating to the international transaction log in the next biennium;  
13. Further decides  that fees paid by a Party that connects to the international transaction 
log for the first time or reconnects to it during the biennium 2022 –2023 shall  be proportioned 
for the period between the date of connection or reconnection of its registry and the end of 
the biennium, except for the period for which the fees were already paid;  
14. Decides  that, where a Party disconnects during the biennium 2022 –2023, t he Party 
shall cover the fees for the full year in which the disconnection took place, and that, if the 
disconnection takes place in the first year of the biennium and the Party does not reconnect 
in the second year of the biennium, fees for the second yea r of the biennium shall not apply;  
15. Also decides  that, where a Party disconnected prior to the biennium 2022 –2023, the 
fees shall not apply until the Party reconnects to the international transaction log;  
16. Authorizes the international transaction log adminis trator to disconnect the registry of 
a Party from the international transaction log in the event of the non -payment of fees by that 
Party, provided that such disconnection shall not be effected earlier than four months after 
the beginning of the relevant c alendar year, at least two reminders have already been given 
to the Party and consultations have taken place with the Party concerned prior to the final 
reminder;  
17. Requests the international transaction log administrator to provide, in its annual 
reports fo r 2022 and 2023, information on transactions of Kyoto Protocol units;  
18. Also requests  the international transaction log administrator to publish, in its annual 
reports, a table listing the scale and the level of fees and the status of payments for all Partie s 
connected to the international transaction log.   FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
 33 Annex  
  Fees for the international transaction log for the biennium 2022 –2023  
Party  Scale of fees for 
2022–2023  
(%) Calculated fees 
for 2022 before 
credit from 
unspent 
balances  
(EUR)  Calculated fees 
for 2023 before 
credit from 
unspent 
balances  
(EUR)  Balance of fees 
for 2022 after 
credit from 
unspent 
balances  
(EUR)  Balance of fees 
for 2023 after 
credit from 
unspent 
balances  
(EUR)  
Australia  2.841  56 204  56 204  19 726  19 726  
Austria  1.588  31 422  31 422  11 029  11 029  
Belarusa 0.073  – – – – 
Belgium  1.973  39 035  39 035  13 700  13 700  
Bulgaria  0.036  703 703 247 247 
Croatia  0.079  1 572  1 572  552 552 
Cyprus  0.061  1 207  1 207  424 424 
Czechia  0.503  9 950  9 950  3 492  3 492  
Denmark  1.323  26 168  26 168  9 184  9 184  
Estonia  0.028  559 559 196 196 
European Union  2.685  53 122  53 122  18 645  18 645  
Finland  1.009  19 962  19 962  7 006  7 006  
France  10.667  211 061  211 061  74 078  74 078  
Germany  15.35  303 714  303 714  106 597  106 597  
Greece  1.065  21 079  21 079  7 398  7 398  
Hungary  0.437  8 647  8 647  3 035 3 035  
Iceland  0.737  14 584  14 584  5 119  5 119  
Ireland  0.797  15 763  15 763  5 532  5 532  
Italy 9.090  179 847  179 847  63 122  63 122  
Japan  14.939  295 585  295 585  103 744  103 744  
Kazakhstana 0.157  – – – – 
Latvia  0.032  641 641 225 225 
Liechtenstein  0.188  3 724  3 724  1 307  1 307  
Lithuania  0.055  1 096  1 096  385 385 
Luxembourg  0.153  3 020  3 020  1 060  1 060  
Malta  0.021  416 416 146 146 
Monaco  0.181  3 579  3 579  1 256  1 256  
Netherlands  3.352  66 320  66 320  23 277  23 277  
New Zealand  0.961  19 011  19 011  6 672  6 672  
Norway  2.319  45 882  45 882  16 104  16 104  
Poland  0.896  17 728  17 728  6 222  6 222  
Portugal  0.943  18 659  18 659  6 549  6 549  
Romania  0.125  2 482  2 482  871 871 
Russian Federationa 2.743  – – – – 
Slovakia  0.113  2 234  2 234  784 784 
Slovenia  0.171  3 393  3 393  1 191  1 191  
Spain  5.311  105 086  105 086  36 883  36 883  
Sweden  1.917  37 938  37 938  13 316  13 316  
Switzerland  2.760  54 611  54 611  19 167  19 167  
Ukraine  0.745  14 749  14 749  5 177  5 177  
United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland  11.888  235 221  235 221  82 556  82 556  
Fees  – 1 925 974  1 925 974  675 974  675 974  
Credit from unspent 
balances from previous 
financial periods  – – – 1 250 000  1 250 000  
Total  – 1 925 974  1 925 974  1 925 974  1 925 974  
a   Currently not connected to the international transaction log; will be subject to the international transaction log 
fees in the case of connection or reconnection to it, in accordance with paras. 11 and 13 of this decision.  
 9th plenary meeting  
11 November 2021FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
34  Decision 10/CMP.16  
Administrative, financial and institutional matters  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Recalling Article 13, paragraph 5, of the Kyoto Protocol,  
Also recalling the UNFCCC  financial procedures, which apply to the Kyoto 
Protocol,1 
Taking note  of decision 23/CP.26 , 
Having  considered  the information contained in the documents prepared  by the 
secretariat on administrative, financial and institutional matters,2 
I. Budget performance for the bienniums 2018 –2019 and 2020 –
2021  
1. Takes note  of the information contained in the reports on budget performance for the 
bienniums 2018 –2019 (as at 31 December 2019) and 2020 –2021 (as at 31 December 2020)3 
and the note on the status of contributions to the trust funds administered by the secretariat 
as at 22 October 2021;4 
2. Expresses its appreciation  to Parties that made contributions  to the core budget in a 
timely manner;  
3. Expresses concern  regarding the high level of outs tanding contributions to the core 
budget for the current and previous bienniums, which has resulted in difficulties with cash 
flow and the effective implementation of activities;  
4. Strongly urges  Parties that have not made contributions in full to the core b udget for 
the current and/or previous bienniums to do so without further  delay;  
5. Calls upon  Parties to make their contributions to the core budget for 2022 in a timely 
manner, bearing in mind that contributions are due on 1 January of each year in accordanc e 
with the UNFCCC financial procedures;  
6. Expresses its appreciation  for the contributions to the Trust Fund for Participation in 
the UNFCCC Process and to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities received from 
Parties, including those contributions that allow for greater flexibility in allocation;  
7. Urges  Parties to further contribute to the Trust Fund for Participation in the UNFCCC 
Process in order to ensure the widest possible participation  in the process in 2022 –2023, and 
to the Trust Fund for Supplemen tary Activities to ensure a high level of implementation of 
the UNFCCC work programme;  
8. Reiterates its appreciation  to the Government of Germany for its annual voluntary 
contribution to the core budget of EUR 766,938 and its special contribution  of 
EUR  1,789,522 as Host Government of the secretariat;  
9. Requests  the Executive Secretary to take further measures to reduce Parties’ 
outstanding contributions;  
 
 1 Decision 15/CP.1, annex I.  
 2 FCCC/S BI/2020/3 and Add.1 –2, FCCC/SBI/2020/INF.2, FCCC/SBI/2020/INF.3, 
FCCC/SBI/2020/INF.9 and Add.1, FCCC/SBI/2021/5 and Add.1, FCCC/SBI/2021/INF.4 and Add.1, 
and FCCC/SBI/2021/INF.8.  
 3 FCCC/SBI/2020/3 and Add.1 –2 and FCCC/SBI/2021/5 and Add.1.  
 4 FCCC/SBI/2021/INF.8.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
 35 10. Also requests  the Executive Secretary to prepare annual budget  performance reports 
covering 12 and 24 mont hs of the biennium, respectively;  
II. Audit reports and financial statements for 2019 and 
2020  
11. Takes note  of the audit reports of the United Nations Board of Auditors5 and the 
financial statements for 2019 and 2020, which include recommendations , and the comm ents 
of the secretariat thereon;  
12. Expresses its appreciation  to the United Nations for arranging the audit of the 
accounts of the Convention;  
13. Also expresses its appreciation  to the auditors for their valuable observations and 
recommendations and the written statement thereon shared with Parties at the fifty -second to 
fifty-fifth session of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation;  
14. Expresses  concern  about the high number of recommendations  from the Unite d 
Nations Board of Auditors not yet implemented by the secretariat;  
15. Urges  the Executive Secretary to implement the recommendations of the auditors, as 
appropriate, and to update Parties on progress ; 
III. Other financial and budgetary matters  
16. Takes note of the i nformation contained in the documents prepared by the secretariat 
on other financial and budgetary matters, including on efforts to further improve the 
efficiency and transparency of the UNFCCC budget process6 and on standard costs;7 
17. Reiterates  the reque st to the Executive Secretary to prepare, regularly update and 
publish before each session of the subsidiary bodies brief reports on standard costs and, if 
available, options for reducing the cost of activities where practicable;  
18. Welcomes  the information o n standard travel costs provided by the secretariat;8 
19. Recommends  that the secretariat publish and regularly update information on standard 
costs on the UNFCCC website (instead of the brief update reports) and inform Parties in a 
timely and clear manner when new information is available (at least before each session of 
the subsidiary bodies);  
20. States  that the purpose of reporting on standard costs is to provide Parties with insight 
into the budgetary impact of any planned decisions of the governing bodies;  
21. Welcomes  the proposed measures for improving the efficiency and tr ansparency of 
the UNFCCC budget process;9 
22. Requests  the secretariat to report on the implementation of those measures in the 
report on efforts to improve the efficiency and transparency of the UNFCCC budget process;  
23. Acknowledges  the increase in unearmarked  contributions in relation to earmarked 
contributions to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities;  
24. Also acknowledges  that reducing earmarking and establishing longer and more 
flexible utilization periods would increase flexibility in using contributions  to the Trust Fund 
for Supplementary Activities, which would enable the secretariat to allocate funding to the 
activities most in need of resources;  
 
 5 FCCC/SBI/2020/INF.9 and Add.1 and FCCC/SBI/2021/INF.4 and Add.1.  
 6 FCCC/SBI/2020/INF.2.  
 7 FCCC/SBI/2020/INF.3.  
 8 As footnote 7 above . 
 9 FCCC/SBI/2020/INF.2, paras. 30, 31 and 33.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
36  25. Appreciates  the approach taken by the Executive Secretary to presenting 
supplementary resource requirements  by overall objective and thematic area while also 
enclosing a list of projects;  
26. Requests  the secretariat to enhance follow -up on Parties’ outstanding core 
contributions, including through payment plans;  
27. Decides to keep  the level of the working capital res erve at 8.3 per cent of annual total 
expenditure (in line with the UNFCCC financial procedures);  
28. Requests  the secretariat to inform Parties of the review and prioritization criteria for 
unearmarked contributions to ensure that they are allocated to activities in line with the 
secretariat’s work programme and the priorities set by Parties.  
9th plenary meeting  
11 November 2021FCCC/KP/CMP/2021/ 8/Add.1  
 37 Resolution 1/CMP.16  
Expression of gratitude to the Government of the United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the 
people of the city of Glasgow  
Resolution submitted by the Arab Republic of Egypt  
The Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of the Parties serv ing as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement , 
Having met in Glasgow from 31 October to 1 3 November 2021,  
1. Express their profound gratitude to the Government of the United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland for having made it possible for the twenty -sixth session of the 
Conference of the Parties, the sixteenth session of the Conference of the Parties serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the third session of the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the  meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement to be held in Glasgow;  
2. Request the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland  
to convey to the city and people of Glasgow the gratitude of the Conference of the Parties, 
the Confere nce of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and 
the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement for 
the hospitality and warmth extended to the participants.  
10th plenary meeting  
13 November 2021  
      
 
GE.23 -04813(E)  
Conference of the Parties  serving as the meeting  
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  
Report of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol on its 
seventeenth session, held in Sharm el -Sheikh  from 6 to 20 
November 2022  
Addendum  
Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at its seventeenth session  
Contents  
Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  
 Decision  Page 
  1/CMP.17  Date of completion of the expert review process under Article 8 of the  
    Kyoto Protocol for the second commitment period  ................................ ...................   2 
  2/CMP.17  Guidance relating to the clean development mechanism  ................................ ...........   4 
  3/CMP .17 Guidance on the implementation of Article 6 of the Kyoto Protocol  ........................   9 
  4/CMP .17 Report of the Adaptation Fund Board for 2022  ................................ .........................   10 
  5/CMP.17  Fourth review of the Adaptation Fund  ................................ ................................ .......  13 
  6/CMP.17  Compliance Committee  ................................ ................................ .............................   16 
  7/CMP.17  Report of the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures  ......  18 
  8/CMP.17  Adm inistrative, financial and institutional matters  ................................ ....................   23 
  9/CMP.17  Administrative, financial and institutional matters  ................................ ....................   30 
  Resolution  
  1/CMP.17  Expression of gratitude to the Government of the Ara b Republic of Egypt and  
    the people of the city of Sharm el -Sheikh  ................................ ................................ ..  32 
   United Nations  FCCC /KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
 
 
 
  
Distr.: General  
17 March 2023  
 
Original: English  
FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
2    Decision 1/CMP.17  
  Date of completion of the expert review process under 
Article  8 of the Kyoto Protocol for the second commitment 
period  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol ,  
  Recalling  Article 3, paragraph 1 bis, of the Kyoto Protocol, as amended,  
Also recalling decisions 13/CMP.1, 14/CMP.1, 22/CMP.1, 3/CMP.11, 4/CMP.11, 
10/CMP.11, 8/CMP.16 and 22/CP.26,  
Further r ecalling decision 27/CMP.1, annex, chapter XIII, and decision 1/CMP.8, 
annex I, chapter C,  
Clarifying that, with regard to decision 27/CMP.1, annex, chapter XIII, for the 
purposes of the second commitment period the reference to Article 3, paragraph 1, of  the 
Kyoto Protocol shall be read as a reference to Article 3, paragraph 1 bis, of the Kyoto Protocol 
as amended,  
Emphasizing the importance of the expert review process under Article 8 of the Kyoto 
Protocol for the final year of the second commitment period in view of its central role in the 
assessment of each Party’s compliance with its commitments under Article 3, paragraph 
1 bis, of the Kyoto Protocol as amended,  
Recognizing that there may be difficulties in finalizing the annual review reports for 
the 2022 review process by 15 April 2023 owing to the complexity of the process, as it is the 
final review for the second commitment period,  
Noting the timely submission of the annual submissions due in 2022 of Parties 
included in Annex I,1 
Also noting the need for Parties to continue to support and facilitate the review 
process, including through the participation of nominated national experts in the greenhouse 
gas inventory review process,  
Recalling that the secretariat maintains a compilat ion and accounting database to 
compile and account for emissions and assigned amounts, pursuant to Article 3, paragraphs 
7 bis, 8 and 8 bis, of the Kyoto Protocol, as amended, and of additions to, and subtractions 
from, assigned amounts, pursuant to the sa me paragraphs, for the accounting of the 
compliance assessment, in order to facilitate the assessment of the compliance of each Party 
included in Annex I with its commitments under Article 3, paragraph 1 bis, of the Kyoto 
Protocol, as amended,  
1. Decides that the expert review process under Article 8 of the Kyoto Protocol for the 
final year of the second commitment period shall be completed by 1 June 2023 subject to the 
availability of resources, and also decides that, if the expert review process is not compl eted 
by that date, it shall continue, and the date of completion shall be the date of publication of 
the final inventory review report for the final year of the second commitment period;  
2. Urges Parties, expert review teams and the secretariat to expedite t he review process 
in order to meet that deadline;  
3. Decides that the report upon expiration of the additional period for fulfilling 
commitments for the second commitment period, covering the information required in 
decision 13/CMP.1, annex, paragraph 49, us ing the standard electronic format tables as 
agreed in decision 3/CMP.11, shall be submitted as soon as practicable but not later than 45 
days after the expiration of the additional period for fulfilling commitments for the second 
commitment period (the tr ue-up period);  
 
 1 As defined in Article 1, para. 7, of the Kyoto Protocol.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
 3 4. Also decides  that the secretariat shall produce in electronic format, on 30 July 2023 
and every four weeks thereafter until the month of completion of the true -up period, the 
following information for each Party included in Annex I with a c ommitment inscribed in 
the third column of Annex B in the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol for the second 
commitment period, indicating clearly the source of the information:  
 (a) Inventory data for each year of the second commitment period;  
 (b) Total  emissions over the second commitment period;  
 (c) Total quantity of units held in Party holding accounts, cancellation accounts 
and the retirement account;  
5. Further decides that this information should include the total quantity of aggregated 
holdings in the clean development mechanism registry;  
6. Decides that information on the review processes remaining to be completed should 
be provided by the secretariat together with the information referred to in paragraph 4 above, 
including information on which revie ws are incomplete, which stage the incomplete review 
processes have reached, on what dates previous stages were completed and, to the extent 
possible, when outstanding stages are expected to be completed.  
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 202 2 
 FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
4    Decision 2/CMP.17  
  Guidance relating to the clean development mechanism  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Recalling  Articles 3 and 12 of the Kyoto Protocol,  
Also recalling  decision 3/CMP.1 and subsequent guidance provided by the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol relating 
to the clean development mechanism,  
Acknowledging  the contribution to global efforts to address climate change of the 
clean development mechanism, which as at 31 October 2022 was responsible for 7,844 
project activities being registered, 361 programmes of activities being registered and over 
2.32 billion  certified emission reductions being issued, of which over 389 million had been 
voluntarily cancelled either in national registries or in the clean development mechanism 
registry,  
Welcoming  the entry into force of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol,1 
Cognizant  of decisions 3/CMA.3 and 7/CMA.4 and their annexes,  
Recognizing  the need for a smooth transition from the clean development mechanism 
to the mechanism established by Article 6, paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreement,  
I. General  
1. Welcomes  the annual report of the Executive Board of the clean development 
mechanism to the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol;2 
2. Takes note  of the work undertaken from 10 September 2021 to 8 September 2022 by 
the Executive Board, its panels and the secretariat in overseeing the implementation of the 
clean development mechanism and maintaining stakeholder engagement in its operations;  
3. Designates  as operational entities those entities that have been accredited and 
provisionally designated as such by the Executive Board to carry out sectoral scope -specific 
validation and/or verification functions as set out in the annex;  
II. Functioning of the clean development mechanism beyond the 
end of the second commitment period of t he Kyoto Protocol  
4. Acknowledges  that the Executive Board recommended that the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol provide guidance on 
specific processes under the clean development mechanism relating to its functioning in the 
future;3 
5. Also acknowledges that, pursuant to paragraph 15 of decision 2/CMP.16, the 
Executive Board may continue to receive and process, under the temporary measures adopted 
at its 108th meeting, requests for registration, renewal of cr editing period and issuance of 
certified emission reductions for project activities and equivalent submissions for 
programmes of activities and the component project activities relating to emission reductions 
occurring after 31 December 2020 until the date  when the process for submission of requests 
to the secretariat to transition the requests and other submissions that have been accorded 
 
 1 Decision 1/CMP.8, annex I.  
 2 FCCC/KP/CMP/202 2/7. 
 3 See document FCCC/KP/CMP/20 22/7, chap. IV.E.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
 5 provisional status to the mechanism established by Article 6, paragraph 4, of the Paris 
Agreement becomes operational;  
6. Requests  the secretariat to prepare a technical paper to support the consideration by 
the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at 
its eighteenth session (November –December 2023) on the functioning and opera tion of the 
processes and institutions of the clean development mechanism in the future,  including 
appropriate time frames, with a view to avoiding a gap before the operationalization of the 
corresponding processes under the Article 6, paragraph 4, mechani sm, including the 
following:  
(a) Submissions to the secretariat of requests for issuance of certified emission 
reductions for monitoring periods ending before 1 January 2021 in accordance with the 
relevant procedure developed by the Executive Board;  
(b) Submission s to the secretariat of requests for voluntary cancellation of certified 
emission reductions in accordance with the relevant procedure developed by the Executive 
Board;  
(c) Approval of new and revised methodologies, methodological tools and 
standardized baseli nes submitted under the bottom -up and initiated under the top -down 
process in accordance with the relevant procedure developed by the Executive Board;  
(d) Operation of the accreditation processes under the clean development 
mechanism ; 
7. Also requests  the Executi ve Board to assess the technical feasibility, as priority, to 
allow submissions of requests for registration, issuance and renewal of afforestation and 
reforestation project activities and programmes of activities under the temporary measures 
referred to i n paragraph 5 above, and revise the procedure for the temporary measures, as 
necessary, without prejudice to the ongoing consideration by the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement of activities involving rem ovals 
under the Article 6, paragraph 4, mechanism ; 
III. Transfer of certified emission reductions to the mechanism 
registry of the Article 6, paragraph 4, mechanism under the 
Paris Agreement  
8. Requests  the clean development mechanism registry administrator, in accordance with 
paragraph 75(a) of the annex to decision 3/CMA.3, to identify certified emission reductions 
held in the clean development mechanism registry4 that are eligible for transfer to the  
mechanism registry for the Article 6, paragraph 4, mechanism, referred to in chapter VI 
(Mechanism registry) of the annex to decision 3/CMA.3 (eligible certified emission 
reductions);  
9. Decides  that the transfer of eligible certified emission reductions, in  accordance with 
paragraph 75(b) of the annex to decision 3/CMA.3, shall be effected through administrative 
cancellation of the eligible certified emission reductions in a dedicated administrative 
cancellation account in the clean development mechanism reg istry, and then the complete set 
of serial numbers of those cancelled eligible certified emission reduction s and the details of 
the receiving account shall be communicated to the mechanism registry  to enable their re -
creation in the mechanism registry;  
10. Invites the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement to request the Supervisory Body to cooperate with the Executive Board on 
implementing the process for transferring eligible certified emission reductions to the  
mechanism registry;  
11. Requests  the Executive Board, in coordination with the Supervisory Body and taking 
into account the timelines for implementing the mechanism registry and any relevant future 
 
 4 https://cdm.unfccc.int/Registry/index.html . FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
6  decisions of the Conference of the Parties serving as the mee ting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement, to:  
(a) Develop and implement a procedure for project participants and Parties 
holding eligible certified emission reducti ons in the clean development mechanism registry, 
as well as the Trustee of the Adaptation Fund,5 to request the transfer of such certified 
emission reductions to the mechanism registry, noting that such  project participants, Parties 
and the Trustee of the  Adaptation Fund  shall provide in their transfer requests:  
(i) The serial numbers of the eligible certified emission reduction s requested to be 
transferred;  
(ii) The details of their receiving accounts in the mechanism registry to which the 
certified emission reductions are to be transferred;  
(b) Develop and implement a procedure that includes the following steps:  
(i) Providing to the host Party written notice of the request for transfer;  
(ii) Effecting the transfer if no written objection from the host Party is re ceived 
within a time frame to be specified by the Executive Board;  
(c) Report on the implementation of the procedure for requesting the transfer of 
eligible certified emission reductions to the mechanism registry in its annual report to the 
Conference of the P arties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol;  
12. Also requests  the clean development mechanism registry administrator to:  
(a) Implement the modifications to the clean development mechanism registry 
necessary for the transfer referred to in p aragraph 9 above in a cost -efficient manner, 
leveraging the existing capabilities of the clean development mechanism registry;  
(b) Open the dedicated administrative cancellation account referred to in 
paragraph 9 above;  
(c) Establish the technical arrangements nec essary for facilitating the electronic 
communication and reconciliation of data related to the cancelled eligible certified emission 
reductions to the mechanism registry;  
(d) Coordinate with the mechanism registry administrator on:  
(i) Establishing the technical a rrangements referred to in paragraph 12(c) above;  
(ii) Reconciling data on cancelled eligible certified emission reductions 
communicated to the mechanism registry;  
(e) Include information on eligible certified emission reductions transferred to the 
mechanism regist ry in its regular reports to the designated national authorities of the host 
Parties of the activities that generated the certified emission reductions;  
(f) Publish the complete set of serial numbers of cancelled eligible certified 
emission reductions transfer red to the mechanism registry on the clean development 
mechanism registry web page ;6 
IV. Management of financial resources  
13. Requests the Executive Board and the secretariat to ensure the efficient and prudent 
use of resources from the Trust Fund for the Clean Development Mechanism until the end of 
the operation of the processes under the clean development mechanism and its institutions, 
as per a timeline to be determined by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of 
the Parties to the Kyoto P rotocol;  
 
 5 For transfers of eligible certified emission reductions from the Adaptation Fund account.  
 6 https://cdm.unfccc.int/Registry/index.html . FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
 7 14. Recalls  its request7 to the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to review the status of 
the Trust Fund for the Clean Development Mechanism and to develop recommendations for 
consideration by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Kyoto Protocol at its eighteenth session.  
 
 7 Decision 2/CMP.16, para. 22.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
8  Annex  
  Entities accredited and provisionally designated by the 
Executive Board of the clean development mechanism  
[English only]  
Name of entity  Sectoral scopes 
(validation and 
verification)  
Ampere for Renewable Energy (Ampere)a 1, 3, 13  
China Environmental United Certification Center Co., Ltd. (CEC)a 1–15 
Japan Quality Assurance Organisation (JQA)a 1, 3–5, 10, 13 –14 
Korea Energy Agency (KEA)a 1, 3–5, 7, 9, 11 –15 
Korea Testing & Research Institute (KTR)a 1, 3–5, 11, 13  
Korean Foundation for Quality (KFQ)a 1–5, 9, 11, 13, 15  
Korean Standards Association (KSA)a 1–5, 9–10, 13 –15 
Re Carbon Gözetim Denetim ve Belgelendirme Limited Sirketi  
(Re Carbon)a 1–3, 13, 15  
RINA Services S.p.A. (RINA)a 1–7, 9–11, 13 –15 
ERM Certification and Verification Services Limited (ERM CVS)b 1, 3–5, 8–10, 13  
Foundation for Industrial Development – Management System 
Certification Institute (Thailand) (MASCI)b 1, 13  
a  Accreditation granted for five years . 
b  Expiration  of the accreditation in its entirety . 
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
 FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
 9 Decision 3/CMP.17  
Guidance on the implementation of Article 6 of the Kyoto 
Protocol  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol ,  
Recalling Articles 3 and 6 of the Kyoto Protocol,  
Also recalling  decision 9/CMP.1 and subsequent guidance provided by the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol relating 
to joint implementation , 
1. Takes note with appreciation  of the latest annual report of the Joint Implemen tation 
Supervisory Committee to the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties 
to the Kyoto Protocol1 and the recommendation therein to consider discontinuing the 
Committee’s activities and functions;   
2. Notes the low level of activity under joint implementation, with the most recent 
activity under Track 12 and Track 23 occurring in 2015 and 2014 respectively;  
3. Commends the work undertaken by the Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee 
since its 1st meeting, in February 2006;  
4. Decides  to terminate the Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee established by 
decision 9/CMP.1, paragraph 3;  
5. Requests  the secretariat to take the necessary steps to conclude matters relating to the 
operations of the Committee and to prepare a report on the operation of Track 2, with 
recommendations on the orderly management of residual resources and other matters relevant 
to the termination of the Committee, for consideration by the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto  Protocol at its eighteenth session 
(November –December  2023).   
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
 
 
 1 FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/6 . 
 2 See decision 9/CMP.1, annex, para. 23.  
 3 The verification procedure under the Joint Implementati on Supervisory Committee, defined in 
decision 9/CMP.1, annex, paras. 30 –45. FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
10  Decision 4/CMP.17  
Report of the Adaptation Fund Board for 2022  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Recalling  decisions 1/CMP.3, 1/CMP.4, 2/CMP.10, 1/CMP.11, 2/CMP.12, 
1/CMP.13, 1/CMP.14, 3/CMP.15 and 3/CMP.16,  
Also recalling  decision 13/CMA.1,  
1. Takes note of the an nual report of the Adaptation Fund Board for 2022, including its 
addendum, and the information therein;1  
2. Notes the following information , actions and decisions relating to the Adaptation Fund 
Board presented in the report referred  to in paragraph 1 above:  
(a) The accreditation of 1 national implementing entity and 2 regional 
implementing entities (with the national implementing entities grante d direct access to 
resources from the Adaptation Fund), resulting in a total number of accredited implementing 
entities of 34 national (of which 10 in the least developed countries and 7 in small island 
developing States), 14 multilateral and 9 regional im plementing entities, of which 33 were 
reaccredited (17 national implementing entities, 5 regional implementing entities and 11 
multilateral implementing entities) for accessing resources from the Adaptation Fund 
directly;  
(b) Cumulative  receipts of USD  1,235.0 6 million, as at 30 June 2022, into the 
Adaptation Fund Trust Fund , comprising USD  211.80 million from the monetization of 
certified emission reductions, USD 982.00 million from contributions and USD  41.26 
million from investment income earned on the Trust  Fund balance;  
(c) Contributions of USD 127.65 million,  of which USD 3.42 million from the 
monetization of certified emission  reductions, USD 123.18 million from additional 
contributions and USD  1.05 million from investment income, received between 1 July 2021  
and 30 June 2022;  
(d) Contributions  amounting to USD 123.18 million received between 1 July 2021 
and 30 June 2022 and new pledges amounting to USD 349.00 million, of which USD 174.40 
million received as at 8 November 2022, towards  the Adaptation Fund resource  mobilization 
target of USD 120.00 million per year for the biennium 2020 –2021;   
(e) Outstanding pledged contributions of USD  174.60 million as at 8 November 
2022;  
(f) Resources available for new funding approvals amounting to USD  219.25 
million as at 30 June 2022 ; 
(g) New funding approvals, including for concrete single -country and regional 
(multi -country) proposals, grant proposals under the Medium -Term Strategy of the 
Adaptation Fund for 2018 –20222 and readiness grants, amounting to USD  94.10 million as 
at 30 June 2022;  
(h) An active pipeline of project and programme proposals amounting to 
USD  333.70 million as at 30 June 2022, reflecting  an upward trend from previous years;  
(i) Cumulative project and programme approvals increasing by around 11 per cent 
to USD  929.72 million between 1 July 2021 and 30 June 2022;  
(j) The approval of eight single -country project or programme proposals 
submitted by implementing entities, totalling USD  53.10 million, of which two proposals 
submitted by national implementing entities , amounting to USD  1.80 million; one single -
 
 1 FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/4 –FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/3 and Add.1 . 
 2 See Adaptation Fund Board document AFB/B.39/5/Rev.2 . FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
 11 country proposal submitted by a regional implementing entity, amounting to USD  10.00 
million; and five single -country proposals submitted by multilateral implementing entities, 
totalling USD  41.30 million;  
(k) The ap proval of three multi -country  projects, amounting to USD  39.90 
million;  
(l) Cumulative  disbursements to the 132 projects approved since the 
operationalization of the Adaptation Fund amounting  to USD  567.84 million, including 
USD  76.40 million disbursed between  1 July 2021 and 30 June 2022;  
(m) The implementation of 80 projects , of which 5 initiated and 10 completed , 
between 1 July 2021 and 30 June 2022 ;  
(n) The approval of two small -grant proposals for innovation amounting to 
USD  0.50 million and one learning  grant  amounting to USD  0.15 million as well as the 
commencement of the second year of implementation of the Adaptation Fund Climate 
Innovation Accelerator;  
(o) Access for developing countries to the Adaptation Fund Climate Innovation 
Accelerator through the U nited Nations Development Programme, in addition to through the 
United Nations Environment Programme and the Climate Technology Centre and Network 
for countries without national implementing entities;  
(p) New activities under the Medium -Term Strategy of the Ad aptation Fund for 
2018 –2022, including the approval of large grants for innovation,  a funding window for 
enhanced direct access and  guidance for implementing entities ;  
(q) The launch of a virtual learning course on accessing project scale -up grants, 
the publi cation of knowledge products  on key emerging themes in relation to climate 
adaptation, including transboundary approaches and youth engagement, and the streamlining 
of the Adaptation Fund accreditation process;  
(r) The organization of readiness events, held v irtually, for accredited national 
implementing entities, including seminars, workshops and learning events on accessing 
Adaptation Fund grants, innovation, global accreditation and enhanced direct access, and a 
country exchange for South –South learning;  
(s) The approval of the 2022 –2025 resource mobilization strategy3 and the 
resource mobilization action plan of the Adaptation Fund;4 
(t) The approval of options for enhancing civil society participation and 
engagement in Adaptation Fund  work;  
(u) The approval of the Adaptation Fund  evaluation policy,5 which replaces the 
current evaluation framework;  
(v) The application of the updated Adaptation Fund gender policy and action plan 
and the consideration of ways to advance gender equality and the empower ment of  women 
and girls in relation to addressing climate change;  
(w) The approval by the Adaptation Fund Board of  the amendments to the strategic 
priorities, policies and guidelines, and operational policies and guidelines of the Adaptation 
Fund;6 
(x) The promotion of linkages of the Adaptation Fund with other UNFCCC 
bodies, such as the Adaptation Committee, the Climate  Technology Centre and Network, the 
Global Environment Facility, the Green Climate Fund, the Paris Committee on Capacity -
building and the Standing Committee on Finance, with the Adaptation Fund Board having 
progress ed in establishing linkages between the A daptation Fund and the Green Climate 
 
 3 See Adaptation Fund Board document AFB/B.39/6/Add.1/Rev.2.  
 4 See Adaptation Fund Board document  AFB/B.39/6/Add.2/Rev.1 . 
 5 See Adaptation Fund  Board document AFB/EFC.29/6/Rev.1 .  
 6 See decision 3/CMP.16, para. 6.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
12  Fund, including through a framework for promoting the scale -up of funded projects and the 
Community of Practice for Direct Access Entities;  
(y) The adoption of the Medium -Term Strategy of the Adaptation Fund for 
2023 –2027 ; 
3. Welcomes the financial pledges to the Adaptation Fund made by the Governments of 
Austria, France, Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Japan, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, 
Republic of Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United States of America, as well as 
the government of the Walloon Region of Belgium and the provincial government of Quebec, 
equivalent to USD 211.58 million;  
4. Stresses  the urgency of enhancing ambition and action in relation to adaptation and 
adaptation finance in this critical decade;  
5. Notes  the outstanding pledged contributions to the Adaptation Fund and urges  Parties 
to fulfil their pledges as soon as possible;  
6. Encourages  continued and increased voluntary contributions of financial resources to 
the Adaptation Fund in line with the 2022 –2025  resource mobilization strategy of the Fund;  
7. Recalls  the invitation of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Paris Agreement7 to developed country Parties to consider multi -annual pledges 
to the Fund;  
8. Underscores the urgency of scaling up financial resources, including the provision of 
voluntary support, that are additional to the share of proceeds levied on certified emission 
reductions in order to support the resource mobilization efforts of the Adaptation Fund Board 
with a view to strengthening the Adaptation Fund;  
9. Emphasizes the importance of continuing to take actions to promote the adequacy and 
predictability of adaptation  finance, taking into account the role of the Adaptation Fund in 
delivering dedicated support for adaptation;  
10. Notes with appreciation  the work of the Adaptation Fund Board on adopting the 
amended operational policies and guidelines8 for developing country  Parties to access 
resources from the Adaptation Fund and adopts  the amended strategic priorities, policies and 
guidelines of the Adaptation Fund;9 
11. Requests the Adaptation Fund Board to consider, in line with its mandate and decision 
1/CMP.3, providing su pport for country -driven adaptation projects and programmes in 
developing countries with a view to assisting them in enhancing implementation of their 
national adaptation plans and other voluntary adaptation planning processes;  
12. Takes note  of the Board’s wo rk on complementarity and coherence with other 
multilateral climate funds with respect to accreditation and other areas of operations and 
encourages  the Board to continue this work to streamline access modalities for project 
approval and the interoperabili ty of reporting requirements, as appropriate;  
13. Requests the Board to adopt a policy on safeguarding against sexual exploitation and 
abuse and sexual harassment.  
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
 
 
 7 See decision 1/CMA.3, para. 16.  
 8 See Adaptation Fund Board document AFB/B.39/9/Add.2 . 
 9 See Adaptation Fund Board document AFB/B.39/9/Add.1 . FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
 13 Decision 5/CMP.17  
Fourth review of the Adaptation Fund  
 The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
 Recalling  decisions 1/CMP.8, 2/CMP.13 and 4/CMP.16,  
 Reiterating the crucial importance of the Adaptation Fund as an essential channel for 
supporting adaptation action and a pioneer of direct access to adaptation finance, together 
with it s focus on funding the full costs of concrete adaptation projects and programmes in 
developing countries,  
 Noting with concern the continued issues related to the sustainability, adequacy and 
predictability of funding from the Adaptation Fund, given the cu rrent prices of certified 
emission reductions, which affect its ability to fulfil its mandate,  
 Noting the importance of the full operationalization of Article 6 of the Paris 
Agreement in the context of scaling up the mobilization of Adaptation Fund resources,  
1. Takes note  of the technical paper on the fourth review (covering 2018 –2021) of the 
Adaptation Fun d,1 which was prepared on the basis of the terms of reference for the review;2  
2. Welcomes  the positive results and performance of the Adaptation Fund, including its 
relevance, efficiency and effectiveness;  
3. Recognizes  the comparative advantages of the Adap tation Fund, including the speed 
of project approval, strategic engagement of stakeholders at the subnational level, various 
institutional benefits, efficiency of institutional arrangements, enhancement of country 
ownership in the funding process, direct a nd regional access modalities and readiness 
programmes;  
4. Also recognizes  the lessons learned and progress made since the third review of the 
Adaptation Fund, including the launch of new funding windows,3 the growth of the Fund’s 
project portfolio and the u pdate of the Fund’s gender and evaluation policies, while 
acknowledging opportunities for improvement with regard to, inter alia, instruments, 
financial windows and knowledge management;  
5. Encourages  the Adaptation Fund to strengthen ongoing efforts related to promoting 
resilience measures, improving policies and regulation, innovation, and development and 
diffusion of innovative adaptation practices, tools and technologies;  
6. Welcomes the increased contributions made to the Adaptation Fund during the fourth 
review period compared with the previous period;4 
7. Notes  with concern  the outstanding pledged contributions to the Adaptation Fund and 
urges  Parties that have not fulfilled their pledges to do so as soon as possible;  
8. Stresses the importance of financial cont ributions to the Adaptation Fund, including 
in the context of urging developed country Parties to at least double their collective provision 
of climate finance for adaptation to developing countries from 2019 levels by 2025, in the 
context of achieving a b alance between mitigation and adaptation in the provision of 
scaled -up financial resources, recalling Article 9, paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreement, as per 
decision 1/CMA.3, para graph  18; 
 
 1 FCCC/TP/2022/1.  
 2 Decision 4/CMP.16 , annex.  
 3 Enhanced direct access grants, learning grants, project scale -up grants, Adaptation Fund Climate 
Innovation Accelerator , and small and large innovation grants.  
 4 Contributions during the period of the fourth review (2018 –2021) amounted to USD 684 million,  or 
272 per cent more than the contributions of USD 251.4 million during the period of the third review 
(2015 –2017).  FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
14  9. Calls  for continued and increased voluntary contributions of financ ial resources to the 
Adaptation Fund;  
10. Notes the importance of further enhancing the predictability of resources channelled 
through the Adaptation Fund;  
11. Also notes  that multi -year contributions to the Adaptation Fund enhance the 
predictability of its funding, acknowledges  that some developed country Parties have already 
committed to multi -year contributions to the Fund and encourages  additional multi -year 
contributi ons to the Fund;  
12. Notes the resource mobilization strategy of the Adaptation Fund (2017 –2020),5 which 
refers for the first time to subnational governments, the private sector and charitable 
foundations as possible additional sources of finance for the Adap tation Fund and encourages  
the Adaptation Fund Board to continue its efforts to mobilize finance from a variety of 
sources under its next resource mobilization strategy (2022 –2025);6 
13. Also encourages  the Adaptation Fund Board to continue to enhance access to the 
Fund, including by:  
(a) Strengthening engagement with and support for building the institutional 
capacity of national implementing entities;  
(b) Expediting the disbursement of approved adaptation grants;  
(c) Further strengthening coherence and complementarity b etween the Adaptation 
Fund and other institutions ’ funding adaptation projects and programmes, including the 
Green Climate Fund, in order to facilitate streamlining access modalities, as appropriate, 
including for accreditation , and scaling up Adaptation F und projects;  
(d) Further improving geographical and thematic coverage in the accreditation of 
national and regional implementing entities;  
14. Requests  the Adaptation Fund Board to include in its annual report to the Conference 
of the Parties serving as the meet ing of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol at its eighteenth 
session and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement at its fifth session (November –December  2023) information on aggregated actual 
results of proj ects and programmes funded by the Adaptation Fund, in particular across the 
Fund’s five core indicators, accompanied by qualitative analysis of successes, challenges and 
lessons learned;  
15. Also requests the Board to review and update the environmental and s ocial safeguard 
policy of the Adaptation Fund, as needed;  
16. Further requests the Board to increase the gender -responsiveness of the resources 
provided by the Adaptation Fund;  
17. Invites  the Board to consider ways to strengthen the engagement of the Adaptation 
Fund with the private sector in order to increase private sector participation in adaptation 
action;  
18. Notes  that some Adaptation Fund policy and guidance documents and readiness 
activities are available or conducted in multiple official languages of the United Nations and 
invites  the Adaptation Fund Board to continue to strengthen its provision of support and 
country engagement at the regional level;  
19. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its sixty -second session (June 
2025) to initiate the fifth review of the Adaptation Fund in accordance with the terms of 
reference contained in the annex to decision 4/CMP.16, or as amended, and to report back to 
its governing bodies at t he session to be convened in conjunction with the thirty -first session 
of the Conference of the Parties (2026);  
 
 5 See Adaptation Fund Board document AFB/B.32/Inf.6 . 
 6 See Adaptation Fund Board document AFB/B.39/6/Add.1/Rev.2 . FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
 15 20. Notes  the recommendation of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation7 that 
subsequent reviews of the Adaptation Fund include a request for the se cretariat to prepare a 
technical paper on the review, including inputs and submissions from Parties, for 
consideration by the Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its session that follows the 
adoption of the relevant terms of reference, to allow for subst antive engagement.  
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
 
 
 7 FCCC/SBI/2022/10, para. 113.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
16  Decision 6/CMP .17 
Compliance Committee  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Recalling  Article 18 of the Kyoto Protocol,  
Also recalling  decisions 27/CMP.1, 4/CMP.2, 4/CMP.4 and 8/CMP.9 , 
Having  considered  the annual report of the Compliance  Committee to the Conference 
of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol ,1 
Recognizing  the importance of  enabling members and alternate members of the 
Compliance Committee of the Kyoto Protocol to remain in office until the ir successors have 
been elected and allowing  for the intersessional replacement of members and alternate 
members , 
Noting  with appreciation  the work of the Compliance Committee during the reporting 
period , 
1. Adopts  the amendments to the rules of procedure of  the Compliance Committee of the 
Kyoto Protocol contained in the annex, in accordance with the provisions of decision 
27/CMP.1, annex, chapter III, paragraph 2(d);  
2. Encourages  Parties to ensure sufficient allocation of resources when considering the 
budget of the Legal Affairs division of the secretariat for the biennium 2024 –2025 in support 
of the work of the Compliance Committee.  
  
 
 1 FCCC/KP/ CMP /2022/ 2.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
 17 Annex  
Amendments to the rules of procedure of the Compliance 
Committee of the Kyoto Protocol  
The “Rules of procedure of the Compliance Committee of the Kyoto Protocol” 
contained in the annex to decision 4/CMP.2, as amended by decisions 4/CMP.4 and 
8/CMP.9, are further amended as follows:  
(a) The following text should be inserted at the end of rule 3, paragraph 1:  
“Each member and alternate member shall remain in office until his or her successor 
is elected.”  
(b) The following text should replace rule 3, paragraph 5:  
“If a member or an al ternate member resigns or is otherwise unable to complete the 
assigned term of office or to perform the functions of that office, the Committee may 
decide, bearing in mind the proximity of the next session of the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the me eting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol, to appoint another 
member or alternate member from the same group or constituency to replace the said 
member or alternate member for the remainder of the term of that member or alternate 
member, in which case the  appointment shall count as one term.”  
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2022  
 FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
18   Decision 7/CMP.17  
 Report of the forum on the impact of the implementation of  
response measures  
The Conference of the Parties and the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol , 
Recalling  decisions 7/CP.24, 3/CMP.14, 7/CMA.1, 4/CP.25, 4/CMP.15, 19/CP.26 
and 7/CMP.16,  
1. Welcome  the Katowice Committee of Experts on the Impacts of the Implementation 
of Response Measures annual reports for 20191 and 2021 –2022;2  
2. Take note of the conclusion of consideration of the Katowice Committee on Impacts 
annual reports for 2019 and 2021 –2022 by the forum on the impact of the implementation of 
response measures;  
3. Adopt  the recommendations forwarded by the forum contained in sections I –VI 
below, pertaining to : 
(a) Lessons learned and best practices from analysis and assessment of positive 
and negative impacts of the implementation of response measures by Parties;  
(b) Activities 2, 3, 4, 5 and 11 respectively of the workplan of the forum and its 
Katowice Committee on I mpacts;3 
4. Invite  Parties, observer organizations and stakeholders to implement the 
recommendations in sections I –VI below, as applicable;  
5. Request the forum and its Katowice Committee on Impacts and the secretariat to 
implement the recommendations in sectio ns I–VI below, as applicable;  
6. Appreciate the progress of the Katowice Committee on Impacts in supporting the 
work of the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures;  
7. Welcome  the informal notes prepared by the Chairs of the Subsidiary Bod y for 
Scientific and Technological Advice and the Subsidiary Body for  Implementation for the 
workshops held in conjunction with the fifty -sixth sessions of the subsidiary bodies on 
workplan activities 3, 4, 9 and 11;  
8. Appreciate  the technical session on imp lementing activities 5 and 11 of the workplan 
and express  their gratitude  to the experts contributing to the work of the forum and its 
Katowice Committee on Impacts;  
9. Also express  their gratitude  to the Government of Antigua and Barbuda, the 
Government of S enegal, the International Labour Organization and the United Nations 
Development Programme for their in -kind, financial, administrative and substantive support 
that contributed to the success of the regional workshops held from  20 to 22 April 2022 in 
St. John’s, Antigua and Barbuda, and from 21 to 23 September 2022 in Saly, Senegal, on 
activity  3 of the workplan;  
10. Note  that the midterm review of the workplan of the forum could not be concluded at 
these sessions, take note  of the informal note on the midterm review4 and request  the forum 
to continue the midterm review at the fifty -eighth sessions of the subsidiary bodies 
(June  2023);  
 
 1 Document KCI/2019/2/4 . 
 2 Document FCCC/SB/2022/6 . 
 3 Contained in annex II to decisions 4/CP.25, 4/CMP.15 and 4/CMA.2 . 
 4 Available at https://unfc cc.int/documents/624251 . The content of the note does not represent 
consensus among Parties . FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
 19 11. Also request  the secretariat to organize a regional workshop on activity 3 of the 
workplan by the fifty -ninth sessions of the subsidiary bodies (November –December 2023), 
in collaboration with relevant organizations and stakeholders, to address regional needs and 
ackno wledge the work that has been carried out by the Katowice Committee on Impacts and 
note that further regional workshops on activity 3 can be decided on by the forum;  
12. Invite  Parties and observers to submit via the submission portal ,5 by April 2023 , their 
views and guiding questions for the review of the functions, work programme and modalities 
of the forum6 and request  the secretariat to prepare the summary of the submissio ns as a basis 
of the discussion of the review, which is to start at the fifty -eighth and conclude at the fifty -
ninth sessions of the subsidiary bodies;  
13. Take note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 3, 11 and 12 above;  
14. Request  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources;  
I. Lessons learned and best practices from analysis and 
assessment of posit ive and negative impacts of the 
implementation of response measures by Parties  
15. Encourage  Parties to consider:  
(a) Developing methodologies and tools, including modelling tools, for the 
assessment and analysis of the impacts of the implementation of response me asures in 
consultation with technical experts, practitioners and other relevant stakeholders, as 
appropriate;  
(b) Building capacity for development and deployment of methodologies and 
tools, in particular of developing country Parties, to inform and support na tional climate 
change mitigation and sustainable development priorities and policies;  
(c) Developing more national, regional and sector -specific case studies involving 
the assessment and analysis of the impacts of the implementation of response measures to 
enable an exchange of experience among Parties;  
II. Activity 27 of the workplan  
16. Encourage  Parties to invest in the early planning of just transition policies that are 
inclusive and based on stakeholder engagement;  
17. Also encourage countries at very low levels of e conomic development to prioritize 
getting the fundamentals right prior to undertaking economic diversification, noting that as 
countries develop, multiple diversification paths become available;  
18. Request  the secretariat, while noting that national circumsta nces differ, to conduct 
peer-to-peer learning, where possible, to facilitate planning and implementation of effective 
policies;  
 
 5 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx . 
 6 Activity e of the workplan as c ontained in annex II to decisions 4/CP.25, 4/CMP.15 and 4/CMA.2 . 
 7 Identify country -driven strategies and best practices on just transition of the workforc e and creation of 
decent work and quality jobs and on economic diversification  and transformation focusing on 
challenges and opportunities from the implementation of low greenhouse gas emission policies and 
strategies towards the achievement of sustainable  development . FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
20  III. Activity 38 of the workplan  
19. Encourage  Parties to:  
(a) Consider the availability of country -level expertise, training, support and 
consultancy services when selecting a tool or methodology for assessing the impacts of the 
implementation of response measures;  
(b) Invest in data collection in line with national and international standards (for 
example, the United Nations System of National A ccounts or the System of Environmental -
Economic Accounting);  
(c) Establish capacity -building partnerships and networks for increasing the 
representation of developing countries in the use and development of impact assessment tools 
and methods for assessing the  impacts of the implementation of response measures;  
(d) Consider both qualitative and quantitative methods for assessing the impact of 
the implementation of response measures;  
20. Request  the forum and its Katowice Committee on Impacts to:  
(a) Facilitate the enhancem ent of the capacity of Parties, in particular developing 
country Parties, to develop and use impact assessment methodologies and tools for 
conducting their own assessments and analyses of the impacts of response measures, 
including on decent work and quali ty jobs, and economic, social, environmental, domestic, 
cross -border, positive and negative impacts; this includes facilitating the development of case 
studies as appropriate and the organization of targeted regional hands -on training workshops;  
(b) Develop an d maintain a web -based user interface for selecting tools and 
methodologies and promote its use among Parties and stakeholders, as appropriate; a user 
manual for the interface could also be developed;  
21. Also request  the secretariat to regularly update the existing database of tools and 
methodologies suitable for assessing the impacts of the implementation of response 
measures, as needed and as appropriate;  
IV. Activity 49 of the workplan  
22. Encourage  Parties to:  
(a) Foster int ernational cooperation to identify and share best practices and 
experience of countries that have successfully diversified their economies;  
(b) Identify barriers, domestic and non -domestic alike, as well as ways in which 
the international community could facil itate the sustainable economic development of all 
Parties;  
23. Request  prioritization of the developing and sharing of case studies by Parties and 
experts, in particular on developing country Parties, on both just transition and economic 
diversification and tr ansformation in order to understand the opportunities and challenges 
faced in their planning and implementation;  
24. Also r equest  facilitation of the development of robust assessment tools and 
methodologies that can capture a range of multidimensional impacts of the implementation 
of response measures;  
 
 8 Facilitate the development, enhancement, customization and use of tools and methodologies for 
modelling and assessing the impacts of the implementation of response measures, including 
identifying and reviewing existing tools and approaches  in data -poor environments, in consultation 
with technical experts, practitioners and other relevant stakeholders . 
 9 Enhance the capacity and understanding of Parties, through collaboration and input from 
stakeholders, on the assessment and analysis of th e impacts of the implementation of response 
measures to facilitate the undertaking of economic diversification and transformation and just 
transition . FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
 21 25. Encourage  relevant agencies, financial institutions and UNFCCC constituted bodies 
to enhance support for addressing issues related to the assessment and analysis of the impacts 
of the implementation of mitigation actions, policies and programmes, including national ly 
determined contributions and long -term low -emission development strategies, with a view to 
addressing the adverse impacts and maximizing opportunities;  
26. Also encourage  relevant agencies to enhance and develop their existing training 
frameworks and module s on assessment and analysis so that they can be used for country -
level training programmes and for developing impact assessment tools and methods;  
V. Activity 510 of the workplan  
27. Encourage Parties to:  
(a) Promote partnerships in research and development, includi ng identifying risks 
and opportunities, and peer -to-peer learning involving relevant national and international 
stakeholders from public and private sectors, as well as civil society, local communities and 
indigenous peoples, youth, workers and research an d academia in new industries and 
businesses;  
(b) Promote inter - and intracountry exchange of experience, best practices, 
research outcomes and learning on new industries and businesses, including by identifying 
relevant skills, making best use of existing know ledge and capabilities, and developing new 
skills through targeted training, retooling, retraining and reskilling;  
(c) Explore new technologies, carbon capture, utilization and storage, hydrogen 
and artificial intelligence tools to maximize the positive and mi nimize the negative impacts 
of the implementation of response measures;  
(d) Develop regulatory frameworks, as appropriate, for carbon capture, transport, 
utilization and storage, and hydrogen production, infrastructure and transport at the national, 
regional o r global level to explore the possibility of standardizing the design and application, 
as appropriate, while ensuring high safety standards;  
(e) Remove barriers and strengthen policy support for carbon capture, utilization 
and storage to drive innovation and d eployment to the scale -up, ensuring specific policy 
incentives critical to expanding the market frontier worldwide;  
(f) Collaborate on methodologies for calculating life cycle greenhouse gas 
emissions from hydrogen production, as needed, and developing compreh ensive and science -
based terminology and relevant standards for hydrogen deployment to promote widespread 
adoption of the hydrogen economy, while also removing barriers;  
28. Also encourage  Parties, observer organizations and other relevant stakeholders to 
enga ge the private sector, including small and medium -sized enterprises, to facilitate the 
identification and exchange of experience and best practices to promote the creation of decent 
work and quality jobs in new industries and businesses;  
29. Further encourage  Parties and stakeholders to foster collaboration, undertake joint 
pilot activities and programmes, and share knowledge, lessons learned and best practices, 
including from governments, business communities, research and academia, artificial 
intelligence exp erts and civil society groups;  
30. Encourage  relevant stakeholders to undertake economic and financial analyses, 
including assessment of the diversification of investments and business models, for 
investment in the hydrogen economy, and to undertake scientific  assessments to understand 
the national resource endowment potential for sustainable hydrogen production;  
 
 10 Build awareness and understanding of Parties and other stakeholders to assess the economic impacts 
of potential new industries and businesses resulting from the implementation of response measures 
with a view to maximizing the positive and minimizing the negative impacts of the implementation of 
response measures . FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
22  VI. Activity 1111 of the workplan  
31. Encourage  Parties to undertake more in -depth analysis on the impacts of response 
measures, quantifying the co -benefits f or the response measures, categorizing where the 
co-benefits come from and who the beneficiaries of the co -benefits are, with a view to 
informing integrated climate actions;  
32. Request  the Katowice Committee on Impacts to enhance the capacity of Parties, in 
particular developing country Parties, to develop and use country -specific tools and 
methodologies for assessing the environmental, social and economic co -benefits of climate 
change policies and actions.  
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
 
 
 11 Facilitate, exchange and sha re experiences and best practices in the assessment of the environmental, 
social and economic co -benefits of climate change policies and actions informed by the best available 
science, including the use of existing tools and methodologies . FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
 23 Decision 8/CMP.17  
Administrative, financial and institutional matters  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Recalling Article 13, paragraph 5, of the Kyoto Protocol,  
Also recalling  the financial procedures for the Conference of the Parties, which also 
apply to the Kyoto Protocol,1 
Having  considered  the information contained in the documents prepared by the 
secretariat on administrative, financial and institutional matters,2 
I. Budget  performance for the biennium 2020 –2021  
1. Takes note  of the information contained in the report on budget performance for the 
biennium 2020 –2021 as at 31 December 20213 and the note on the status of contributions to 
the trust funds administered by the secre tariat as at 23 May 2022;4 
2. Expresses its appreciation  to Parties that made contributions to the core budget in a 
timely manner;  
3. Expresses concern  regarding the high level of outstanding contributions to the core 
budget for the current and previous bienniu ms, which has resulted in difficulties with cash 
flow and the effective implementation of activities;  
4. Strongly urges  Parties that have not made contributions in full to the core budget for 
the current and/or previous bienniums  to do so without further delay;  
5. Expresses its appreciation  for the contributions to the Trust Fund for Participation in 
the UNFCCC Process and to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities received from 
Parties, including those contributions that allow f or greater flexibility in allocation;  
6. Urges  Parties to further contribute to the Trust Fund for Participation in the UNFCCC 
Process in order to ensure the widest possible participation in the process in 2022 –2023, and 
to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Ac tivities to ensure a high level of implementation of 
the UNFCCC work programme;  
7. Reiterates its appreciation  to the Government of Germany for its annual voluntary 
contribution to the core budget of EUR 766,938 and its special contribution  of 
EUR  1,789,522 as Host Government of the secretariat;  
8. Requests  the Executive Secretary to take further measures to reduce Parties’ 
outstanding contributions;  
II. Other budgetary matters  
9. Takes note  of the information contained in the document prepared by the secretariat 
on ef forts to further improve the efficiency and transparency of the UNFCCC budget 
process;5  
 
 1 Decision 15/C P.1, annex I . 
 2 FCCC/SBI/2022/3 and Add.1, FCCC/SBI/2022/9, FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.1, FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.2, 
FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.3, FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.7 and FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.9.  
 3 FCCC/SBI/2022/3 and Add.1.  
 4 FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.9.  
 5 FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.2 .  FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
24  10. Also takes note  of the information contained in the note by the secretariat on the 
revised scales of indicative contributions for 2022 –2023;6 
11. Adopts  the indicative s cale of contributions contained in the annex;  
12. Decides  that the scale of contributions contained in the annex shall also be applicable 
for 2022, covering 11 per cent of the contributions specified in table 1 in decision 22/CP.26;  
13. Takes note  of the information contained in the note on the updated work programme 
of the secretariat for the biennium 2022 –2023;7 
14. Also takes note  of the information contained in the note on possible long -term 
financing strategies for secretariat employee benefit li abilities;8 
15. Further takes note  of the mechanisms currently in place for funding employee 
benefits, as summarized in section III of the note referred to in paragraph 14 above;  
16. Requests the secretariat to continue implementing the mechanisms referred in 
paragraph 15 above;  
17. Also requests the secretariat to inform the Subsidiary Body for Implementation of any 
relevant developments with regard to the funding of employee benefits, including any 
relevant resolutions adopted by the United Nations General Assembly;  
18. Strongly urges the secretariat to publish documents on budgetary matters in a timely 
manner;  
III. UNFCCC annual  report  
19. Takes note  of the information contained in the annual report on 2021 secretariat 
activities, programme delivery highlights and financial per formance.9 
  
 
 6 FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.1.  
 7 FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.3 .  
 8 FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.7.  
 9 FCCC/SBI/2022/9.  FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
 25 Annex  
  Indicative scale of contributions from Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol for 2022 –2023  
Party  United Nations scale of assessments for 
2022–2024 (%)  UNFCCC revised indicative scale of 
contributions for 2022 –2023 (%)  
Afghanistan  0.006  0.008  
Albania  0.008  0.010  
Algeria  0.109  0.141  
Angola  0.010  0.013  
Antigua and Barbuda  0.002  0.003  
Argentina  0.719  0.930  
Armenia  0.007  0.009  
Australia  2.111  2.731  
Austria  0.679  0.878  
Azerbaijan  0.030  0.039  
Bahamas  0.019  0.025  
Bahrain  0.054  0.070  
Bangladesh  0.010  0.013  
Barbados  0.008  0.010  
Belarus  0.041  0.053  
Belgium  0.828  1.071  
Belize  0.001  0.001  
Benin  0.005  0.006  
Bhutan  0.001  0.001  
Bolivia (Plurinational State of)  0.019  0.025  
Bosnia and Herzegovina  0.012  0.016  
Botswana  0.015  0.019  
Brazil  2.013  2.604  
Brunei Darussalam  0.021  0.027  
Bulgaria  0.056  0.072  
Burkina Faso  0.004  0.005  
Burundi  0.001  0.001  
Cabo Verde  0.001  0.001  
Cambodia  0.007  0.009  
Cameroon  0.013  0.017  
Central African Republic  0.001  0.001  
Chad  0.003  0.004  
Chile  0.420  0.543  
China  15.254  19.735  
Colombia  0.246  0.318  
Comoros  0.001  0.001  
Congo  0.005  0.006  
Cook Islands  0.000  0.001  
Costa Rica  0.069  0.089  
Côte d’Ivoire  0.022  0.028  
Croatia  0.091  0.118  
Cuba  0.095  0.123  
Cyprus  0.036  0.047  FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
26  Party  United Nations scale of assessments for 
2022–2024 (%)  UNFCCC revised indicative scale of 
contributions for 2022 –2023 (%)  
Czechia  0.340  0.440  
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea  0.005  0.006  
Democratic Republic of the Congo  0.010  0.013  
Denmark  0.553  0.715  
Djibouti  0.001  0.001  
Dominica  0.001  0.001  
Dominican Republic  0.067  0.087  
Ecuador  0.077  0.100  
Egypt  0.139  0.180  
El Salvador  0.013  0.017  
Equatorial Guinea  0.012  0.016  
Eritrea  0.001  0.001  
Estonia  0.044  0.057  
Eswatini  0.002  0.003  
Ethiopia  0.010  0.013  
European Union  0.000  2.500  
Fiji 0.004  0.005  
Finland  0.417  0.540  
France  4.318  5.587  
Gabon  0.013  0.017  
Gambia  0.001  0.001  
Georgia  0.008  0.010  
Germany  6.111  7.906  
Ghana  0.024  0.031  
Greece  0.325  0.420  
Grenada  0.001  0.001  
Guatemala  0.041  0.053  
Guinea  0.003  0.004  
Guinea -Bissau  0.001  0.001  
Guyana  0.004  0.005  
Haiti  0.006  0.008  
Honduras  0.009  0.012  
Hungary  0.228  0.295  
Iceland  0.036  0.047  
India  1.044  1.351  
Indonesia  0.549  0.710  
Iran (Islamic Republic of)  0.371  0.480  
Iraq 0.128  0.166  
Ireland  0.439  0.568  
Israel  0.561  0.726  
Italy 3.189  4.126  
Jamaica  0.008  0.010  
Japan  8.033  10.393  
Jordan  0.022  0.028  
Kazakhstan  0.133  0.172  
Kenya  0.030  0.039  
Kiribati  0.001  0.001  
Kuwait  0.234  0.303  
Kyrgyzstan  0.002  0.003  FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
 27 Party  United Nations scale of assessments for 
2022–2024 (%)  UNFCCC revised indicative scale of 
contributions for 2022 –2023 (%)  
Lao People’s Democratic Republic  0.007  0.009  
Latvia  0.050  0.065  
Lebanon  0.036  0.047  
Lesotho  0.001  0.001  
Liberia  0.001  0.001  
Libya  0.018  0.023  
Liechtenstein  0.010  0.013  
Lithuania  0.077  0.100  
Luxembourg  0.068  0.088  
Madagascar  0.004  0.005  
Malawi  0.002  0.003  
Malaysia  0.348  0.450  
Maldives  0.004  0.005  
Mali  0.005  0.006  
Malta  0.019  0.025  
Marshall Islands  0.001  0.001  
Mauritania  0.002  0.003  
Mauritius  0.019  0.025  
Mexico  1.221  1.580  
Micronesia (Federated States  of) 0.001  0.001  
Monaco  0.011  0.014  
Mongolia  0.004  0.005  
Montenegro  0.004  0.005  
Morocco  0.055  0.071  
Mozambique  0.004  0.005  
Myanmar  0.010  0.013  
Namibia  0.009  0.012  
Nauru  0.001  0.001  
Nepal  0.010  0.013  
Netherlands  1.377  1.782  
New Zealand  0.309  0.400  
Nicaragua  0.005  0.006  
Niger  0.003  0.004  
Nigeria  0.182  0.235  
Niue  0.000  0.001  
North Macedonia  0.007  0.009  
Norway  0.679  0.878  
Oman  0.111  0.144  
Pakistan  0.114  0.147  
Palau  0.001  0.001  
Panama  0.090  0.116  
Papua New Guinea  0.010  0.013  
Paraguay  0.026  0.034  
Peru 0.163  0.211  
Philippines  0.212  0.274  
Poland  0.837  1.083  
Portugal  0.353  0.457  
Qatar  0.269  0.348  
Republic of Korea  2.574  3.330  FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
28  Party  United Nations scale of assessments for 
2022–2024 (%)  UNFCCC revised indicative scale of 
contributions for 2022 –2023 (%)  
Republic of Moldova  0.005  0.006  
Romania  0.312  0.404  
Russian Federation  1.866  2.414  
Rwanda  0.003  0.004  
Saint Kitts and Nevis  0.002  0.003  
Saint Lucia  0.002  0.003  
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines  0.001  0.001  
Samoa  0.001  0.001  
San Marino  0.002  0.003  
Sao Tome and Principe  0.001  0.001  
Saudi Arabia  1.184  1.532  
Senegal  0.007  0.009  
Serbia  0.032  0.041  
Seychelles  0.002  0.003  
Sierra Leone  0.001  0.001  
Singapore  0.504  0.652  
Slovakia  0.155  0.201  
Slovenia  0.079  0.102  
Solomon Islands  0.001  0.001  
Somalia  0.001  0.001  
South Africa  0.244  0.316  
Spain  2.134  2.761  
Sri Lanka  0.045  0.058  
Sudan  0.010  0.013  
Suriname  0.003  0.004  
Sweden  0.871  1.127  
Switzerland  1.134  1.467  
Syrian Arab Republic  0.009  0.012  
Tajikistan  0.003  0.004  
Thailand  0.368  0.476  
Timor -Leste  0.001  0.001  
Togo  0.002  0.003  
Tonga  0.001  0.001  
Trinidad and Tobago  0.037  0.048  
Tunisia  0.019  0.025  
Türkiye  0.845  1.093  
Turkmenistan  0.034  0.044  
Tuvalu  0.001  0.001  
Uganda  0.010  0.013  
Ukraine  0.056  0.072  
United Arab Emirates  0.635  0.822  
United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland  4.375  5.660  
United Republic of Tanzania  0.010  0.013  
Uruguay  0.092  0.119  
Uzbekistan  0.027  0.035  
Vanuatu  0.001  0.001  
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)  0.175  0.226  
Viet Nam  0.093  0.120  FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
 29 Party  United Nations scale of assessments for 
2022–2024 (%)  UNFCCC revised indicative scale of 
contributions for 2022 –2023 (%)  
Yemen  0.008  0.010  
Zambia  0.008  0.010  
Zimbabwe  0.007  0.009  
Total  75.365  100.000  
a 
 
Note s: (1) For presentation purposes, all percentage figures for the UNFCCC revised indicative scale of 
contributions have been given to three decimal places; ( 2) Cook Islands, the European Union and Niue are Parties to 
the Kyoto Protocol but not United Nations Member States . 
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 202 2 
 FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
30  Decision 9/CMP.17  
Administrative, financial and institutional matters  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol , 
Recalling  Article 13, paragraph 5, of the Kyoto Protocol,  
Also recalling  the financial procedures for the Conference of the Parties, which also 
apply to the Kyoto Protocol,1 
Taking note  of decision 27/CP.27,  
Having  considered  the information contained in the documents prepared by the 
secretariat on administrative, financial a nd institutional matters for this session,2 
I. Audit report and financial statements for 2021  
1. Takes note  of the financial report and audited financial statements for 2021 and the 
report of the United Nations Board of Auditors, which include recommendations, and the 
comments of the secretariat thereon;  
2. Expresses its appreciation  to the United Nations for arra nging the audit of the 
accounts of the Convention;  
3. Also expresses its appreciation  to the auditors for their valuable observations and 
recommendations;  
4. Expresses  concern  about the high number of recommendations from the United 
Nations Board of Auditors not  yet implemented by the secretariat;  
5. Urges  the Executive Secretary to implement the recommendations of the auditors , as 
appropriate, and to update Parties on progress;  
II. Other financial and budgetary matters  
6. Takes note  of the information contained in the not e on the updated work programme 
of the secretariat for the biennium 2022 –2023;3 
7. Also takes note  of the information contained in the note on the status of contributions 
to the trust funds administered by the secretariat as at 21 October 2022;4 
8. Expresses i ts appreciation  to Parties that made contributions to the core budget in a 
timely manner;  
9. Expresses concern  regarding the high level of outstanding contributions to the core 
budget for the current and previous bienniums, which has resulted in difficulties with cash 
flow and the effective implementation of activities;  
10. Strongly urges  Parties that have not made contributions in full to the core budget for 
the current and/or previous bienniums to do so without further delay;  
11. Expresses its appreciation  for the c ontributions to the Trust Fund for Participation in 
the UNFCCC Process and to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities received from 
Parties, including those contributions that allow for greater flexibility in allocation;  
 
 1 Decision 15/CP.1, annex I . 
 2 FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.10  and Add.1 , FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.11  and FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.16 . 
 3 FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.11 . 
 4 FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.16 . FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
 31 12. Urges  Parties to further contri bute to the Trust Fund for Participation in the UNFCCC 
Process in order to ensure the widest possible participation in the process in 2022 –2023, and 
to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities to ensure a high level of implementation of 
the UNFCCC work programme;  
13. Reiterates its appreciation  to the Government of Germany for its annual voluntary 
contribution to the core budget of EUR 766,938 and its special contribution  of 
EUR  1,789,522 as Host Government of the secretariat;  
14. Requests  the Executive Secretary to take further measures to reduce Parties’ 
outstanding contributions.  
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2022  
 FCCC/KP/CMP/2022/9/Add.1  
32  Resolu tion 1/CMP.17  
Expression of gratitude to the Government of the Arab 
Republic of Egypt and the people of the city of Sharm 
el-Sheikh  
Resolution submitted by the United Arab Emirates  
The Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement , 
Having met  in Sharm el -Sheikh from 6 to 20 November 2022,  
1. Express their profound gratitude to the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt 
for having made it possible for the twenty -seventh session of the Conference of the Parties, 
the seventeenth session of the Con ference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties 
to the Kyoto Protocol and the fourth session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement to be held in Sharm el -Sheikh;  
2. Request the Government of  the Arab Republic of Egypt to convey to the city and 
people of Sharm el -Sheikh the gratitude of the Conference of the Parties, the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of 
the Parties serv ing as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement for the hospitality and 
warmth extended to the participants.  
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
      
GE.16 -01194(E)  
*1601194*   
 
Conference of the Parties  
  Report of the Conference of the Parties on its twenty -first 
session, held  in Paris from 30 November to 13  December 2015  
 Addendum  
  Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties at its 
twenty -first session  
Contents  
  Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties  
Decision   Page 
  1/CP.21  Adoption of t he Paris Agreement  ................................ ................................ ..............   2 
 
   United Nations  FCCC /CP/2015/10/Add.1  
 
 
  
Distr.: General  
29 January 2016  
 
Original: English  
FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
2    Decision 1/CP.21  
  Adoption of the Paris Agreement  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling decision 1/CP.17 on the establishment of the Ad Hoc Working Group on 
the Durban Platform for Enhanced Action,  
Also recalling  Articles 2, 3 and 4 of the Convention,  
Further  recalling  relevant decisions of the Conference of the Parties, including 
decisions 1/CP.16, 2/CP.18, 1/CP.19 and 1/CP.20,  
Welcoming  the adoption of United Nations General Assembly resolution 
A/RES/70/1, “Tran sforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development”, in 
particular its goal 13, and the adoption of the Addis Ababa Action Agenda of the third 
International Conference on Financing for Development and the adoption of the Sendai 
Framework for D isaster Risk Reduction,  
Recognizing  that climate change represents an urgent and potentially irreversible 
threat to human societies and the planet and thus requires the widest possible cooperation 
by all countries, and their participation in an effective a nd appropriate international 
response, with a view to accelerating the reduction of global greenhouse gas emissions,  
Also recognizing that deep reductions in global emissions will be required in order 
to achieve the ultimate objective of the Convention an d emphasizing  the need for urgency 
in addressing climate change,  
Acknowledging  that climate change is a common concern of humankind, Parties 
should, when taking action to address climate change, respect, promote and consider their 
respective obligations o n human rights, the right to health, the rights of indigenous peoples, 
local communities, migrants, children, persons with disabilities and people in vulnerable 
situations and the right to development, as well as gender equality, empowerment of 
women and i ntergenerational equity,   
 Also acknowledging  the specific needs and concerns of developing country Parties 
arising from the impact of the implementation of response measures and, in this regard, 
decisions 5/CP.7, 1/CP.10, 1/CP.16 and 8/CP.17,  
Emphasizing  with serious concern the urgent need to address the significant gap 
between the aggregate effect of Parties’ mitigation pledges in terms of global annual 
emissions of greenhouse gases by 2020 and aggregate emission pathways consistent with 
holding the inc rease in the global average temperature to well below 2 °C above pre -
industrial levels and pursuing efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5 °C above pre -
industrial levels,  
Also emphasizing  that enhanced pre ‐2020 ambition can lay a solid foundation  for 
enhanced post ‐2020 ambition,  
Stressing  the urgency of accelerating the implementation of the Convention and its 
Kyoto Protocol in order to enhance pre -2020 ambition,  
Recognizing  the urgent need to enhance the provision of finance, technology and 
capacity-building support by developed country Parties, in a predictable manner, to enable 
enhanced pre -2020 action by developing country Parties,  
Emphasizing  the enduring benefits of ambitious and early action, including major 
reductions in the cost of futur e mitigation and adaptation efforts,  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
 3 Acknowledging the need to promote universal access to sustainable energy in 
developing countries, in particular in Africa, through the enhanced deployment of 
renewable energy,  
Agreeing  to uphold and promote regional and  international cooperation in order to 
mobilize stronger and more ambitious climate action by all Parties and non -Party 
stakeholders, including civil society, the private sector, financial institutions, cities and 
other subnational authorities, local commu nities and indigenous peoples,  
I. Adoption  
1. Decides to adopt the Paris Agreement under the United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change (hereinafter referred to as “the Agreement”) as contained in 
the annex;  
2. Requests the Secretary -General of the Unite d Nations to be the Depositary of the 
Agreement and to have it open for signature in New York, United States of America, from 
22 April 2016 to 21 April 2017;  
3. Invites the Secretary -General to convene a high -level signature ceremony for the 
Agreement on 22 A pril 2016;  
4. Also invites all Parties to the Convention to sign the Agreement at the ceremony to 
be convened by the Secretary -General, or at their earliest opportunity, and to deposit their 
respective instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or acce ssion, where appropriate, 
as soon as possible;  
5. Recognizes that Parties to the Convention may provisionally apply all of the 
provisions of the Agreement pending its entry into force, and requests Parties to provide 
notification of any such provisional application to the Depositary;  
6. Notes  that the work of the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Durban Platform for 
Enhanced Action, in accordance with decision 1/CP.17, paragraph 4, has been completed;  
7. Decides  to establish the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris Agre ement under the 
same arrangement, mutatis mutandis, as those concerning the election of officers to the 
Bureau of the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Durban Platform for Enhanced Action;1 
8. Also decides  that the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris Agreement shall prepare 
for the entry into force of the Agreement and for the convening of the first session of the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement;  
9. Further  decides  to oversee the implementation of the work programme resulting 
from the relevant requests contained in this decision;  
10. Requests  the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris Agreement to report regularly to 
the Conference of the Parties on the progress of it s work and to complete its work by the 
first session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Paris Agreement;  
11. Decides that the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris Agreement shall hold its 
sessions starting in 2016 in con junction with the sessions of the Convention subsidiary 
bodies and shall prepare draft decisions to be recommended through the Conference of the 
Parties to the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement for consi deration and adoption at its first session;  
                                                           
 1 Endorsed by decision 2/CP.18, para graph 2. FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
4  II. Intended nationally determined contributions  
12. Welcomes the intended nationally determined contributions that have been 
communicated by Parties in accordance with decision 1/CP.19, paragraph 2(b);  
13. Reiterates its in vitation to all Parties that have not yet done so to communicate to the 
secretariat their intended nationally determined contributions towards achieving the 
objective of the Convention as set out in its Article 2 as soon as possible and well in 
advance of the twenty -second session of the Conference of the Parties (November 2016) 
and in a manner that facilitates the clarity, transparency and understanding of the intended 
nationally determined contributions;  
14. Requests the secretariat to continue to publish the  intended nationally determined 
contributions communicated by Parties on the UNFCCC website;  
15. Reiterates its call to developed country Parties, the operating entities of the 
Financial Mechanism and any other organizations in a position to do so to provide s upport 
for the preparation and communication of the intended nationally determined contributions 
of Parties that may need such support;  
16. Takes note of the synthesis report on the aggregate effect of intended nationally 
determined contributions communicated by Parties by 1 October 2015 , contained in 
document FCCC/CP/2015/7 ;  
17. Notes  with concern  that the estimated aggregate greenhouse gas emission levels in 
2025 and 2030 resulting from the intended nationally determined contributions do not fall 
within least -cost 2 ˚C scenarios but rather lead to a projected level of 55 gigatonnes in 
2030, and also notes  that much greater emission reduction efforts will be required than 
those associated with the intended nationally determined contributions in order to hold the 
increase in the global average temperature to below 2 ˚C above pre -industrial levels by 
reducing emissions to 40 gigatonnes or to 1.5 ˚C above pre -industrial levels by reducing to 
a level to be identified in the special report referred to in paragraph 21 below;  
18. Further notes , in this context, the adaptation needs expressed by many developing 
country Parties in their intended nationally determined contributions;  
19. Requests the secretariat to update the synthesis report referred to in paragraph 16 
above so as to cover all the information in the intended nationally determined contributions 
communic ated by Parties pursuant to decision 1/CP.20 by 4 April 2016 and to make it 
available by 2 May 2016;  
20. Decides to convene a facilitative dialogue among Parties in 2018 to take stock of the 
collective efforts of Parties in relation to progress towards the lo ng-term goal referred to in 
Article 4, paragraph 1, of the Agreement and to inform the preparation of nationally 
determined contributions  pursuant to Article 4, paragraph 8, of the Agreement;  
21. Invites the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change to provide  a special report in 
2018 on the impacts of global warming of 1.5 °C above pre -industrial levels and related 
global greenhouse gas emission pathways;   
III. Decisions to give effect to the Agreement   
Mitigation   
22. Also invites  Parties to communicate their first nationally determined contribution no 
later than when the Party submits its respective instrument of ratification, acceptance, 
approval or accession of the Paris Agreement; if a Party has communicated an intended FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
 5 nationa lly determined contribution prior to joining the Agreement, that Party shall be 
considered to have satisfied this provision unless that Party decides otherwise;  
23. Requests those Parties whose intended nationally determined contribution pursuant 
to decision 1 /CP.20 contains a time frame up to 2025 to communicate by 2020 a new 
nationally determined contribution and to do so every five years thereafter pursuant to 
Article 4, paragraph 9, of the Agreement;  
24. Also r equests  those Parties whose intended nationally det ermined contribution 
pursuant to decision 1/CP.20 contains a time  frame up to 2030 to communicate  or update 
by 2020 these contributions  and to do so every five years thereafter pursuant to Article 4, 
paragraph 9, of the Agreement;  
25. Decides  that Parties shal l submit to the secretariat their nationally determined 
contributions referred to in Article 4 of the Agreement at least 9 to 12 months in advance of 
the relevant session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to 
the Paris A greement  with a view to facilitating the clarity, transparency and understanding 
of these contributions, including through a synthesis report prepared by the secretariat;  
26. Requests  the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris Agreement  to develop further 
guidance on features of the nationally determined contributions for consideration and 
adoption by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement  at its first session;  
27. Agrees  that the informati on to be provided by Parties communicating their 
nationally determined contributions, in order to facilitate clarity, transparency and 
understanding, may include, as appropriate, inter alia, quantifiable information on the 
reference point (including, as ap propriate, a base year), time frames and/or periods for 
implementation, scope and coverage, planning processes, assumptions and methodological 
approaches including those for estimating and accounting for anthropogenic greenhouse gas 
emissions and, as appro priate, removals, and how the Party considers that its nationally 
determined contribution is fair and ambitious, in the light of its national circumstances, and 
how it contributes towards achieving the objective of the Convention as set out in its 
Article 2; 
28. Requests  the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris Agreement  to develop further 
guidance for the information to be provided by Parties in order to facilitate clarity, 
transparency and understanding of nationally determined contributions for consideration 
and adoption by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Paris Agreement  at its first session;  
29. Also requests the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to develop modalities and 
procedures for the operation and use of the public registry referred to in Article 4, 
paragraph 12, of the Ag reement, for consideration and adoption by the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  at its first session;  
30. Further requests  the secretariat to make available an interim public registry in the 
first half of 2 016 for the recording of nationally determined contributions submitted in 
accordance with Article 4 of the Agreement , pending the adoption by the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  of the modalities and 
procedures referred to in paragraph 29 above;  
31. Requests  the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris Agreement  to elaborate, drawing 
from approaches established under the Convention and its related legal instruments  as 
appropriate, guidance for accounting for Parti es’ nationally determined contributions, as 
referred to in Article 4, paragraph 13, of the Agreement, for consideration and adoption by 
the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  at 
its first session, which e nsures that:  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
6  (a) Parties account for anthropogenic emissions and removals in accordance with 
methodologies and common metrics assessed by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change  and adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the P arties 
to the Paris Agreement ; 
(b) Parties ensure methodological consistency, including on baselines, between 
the communication and implementation of nationally determined contributions;  
(c) Parties strive to include all categories of anthropogenic emissions or 
removals in their nationally determined contributions and, once a source, sink or activity is 
included, continue to include it;  
(d) Parties shall provide an explanation of why any categories of anthropogenic 
emissions or removals are excluded;  
32. Decides  that Part ies shall apply the guidance referred to in paragraph 31 above to the 
second and subsequent nationally determined contributions and that Parties may elect to 
apply such guidance to their first nationally determined contribution;  
33. Also decides that the forum  on the impact of the implementation of response 
measures, under the subsidiary bodies, shall continue, and shall serve the Agreement;  
34. Further decides that the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice 
and the Subsidiary Body for Implementati on shall recommend, for consideration and 
adoption by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement at its first session, the modalities, work programme and functions of the forum 
on the impact of the implementa tion of response measures to address the effects of the 
implementation of response measures under the Agreement by enhancing cooperation 
amongst Parties on understanding the impacts of mitigation actions under the Agreement 
and the exchange of information,  experiences, and best practices amongst Parties to raise 
their resilience to these impacts ;  
35. Invites  Parties to communicate, by 2020, to the secretariat mid -century, long -term 
low greenhouse gas emission development strategies in accordance with Article 4 , 
paragraph 19, of the Agreement, and requests  the secretariat to publish on the UNFCCC 
website Parties’ low greenhouse gas emission development strategies as communicated;  
36. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice to develop 
and recommend the guidance referred to under Article 6, paragraph 2, of the Agreement for 
consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Paris Agreement at its first session, including guidance to ensu re that double 
counting is avoided on the basis of a corresponding adjustment by Parties for both 
anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks covered by their nationally 
determined contributions under the Agreement;  
37. Recommends that the Confere nce of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties 
to the Paris Agreement  adopt rules, modalities and procedures for the mechanism 
established by Article 6, paragraph 4, of the Agreement on the basis of:  
(a) Voluntary participation authorized by each Pa rty involved;  
(b) Real, measurable, and long -term benefits related to the mitigation of climate 
change;  
(c) Specific scopes of activities;  
(d) Reductions in emissions that are additional to any that would otherwise 
occur;  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
 7 (e) Verification and certification of emission re ductions resulting from 
mitigation activities by designated operational entities;  
(f) Experience gained with and lessons learned from existing mechanisms and 
approaches adopted under the Convention and its related legal instruments;  
38. Requests the Subsidiary Bod y for Scientific and Technological Advice to develop 
and recommend rules, modalities and procedures for the mechanism referred to in 
paragraph 37 above for consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties serving 
as the meeting of the Parties to  the Paris Agreement  at its first session;  
39. Also requests  the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice to 
undertake a work programme under the framework for non -market approaches to 
sustainable development referred to in Article 6, paragraph 8, of the Agreement, with the 
objective of considering how to enhance linkages and create synergy between, inter alia, 
mitigation, adaptation, finance, technology transfer and capacity -building, and how to 
facilitate the implementation and coordination of non-market approaches;  
40. Further requests  the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice to 
recommend a draft decision on the work programme referred to in paragraph 39 above, 
taking into account the views of Parties, for consideration and adoption by the Conference 
of the Parties se rving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  at its first 
session;  
Adaptation  
41. Requests  the Adaptation Committee and the Least Developed Countries Expert 
Group to jointly develop modalities to recognize the adaptation efforts of developing 
country Parties, as referred to in Article 7, paragraph 3, of the Agreement, and make 
recommendations f or consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties serving 
as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  at its first session;  
42. Also requests  the Adaptation Committee, taking into account its mandate and its 
second three -year workplan, an d with a view to preparing recommendations for 
consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Paris Agreement at its first session:  
(a) To review, in 2017, the work of adaptation -related institutional arrangements 
under the Convention, with a view to identifying ways to enhance the coherence of their 
work, as appropriate, in order to respond adequately to the needs of Parties;  
(b) To consider methodologies for assessing adaptation needs with a view to 
assisting developing country Parties, without placing an undue burden on them;  
43. Invites  all relevant United Nations agencies and international, regional and national 
financial institutions to provide information to Parties through the secretariat on how their 
development assistance and climate finance programmes incorporate climate -proofing and 
climate resilience measures;  
44. Requests  Parties to strengthen regional cooperation on adaptation where appropriate 
and, where necessary, establish regional centres and netw orks, in particular in developing 
countries, taking into account decision 1/CP.16, paragraph 30;  
45. Also requests  the Adaptation Committee and the Least Developed Countries Expert 
Group, in collaboration with the Standing Committee on Finance and other relev ant 
institutions, to develop methodologies, and make recommendations for consideration and 
adoption by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement  at its first session on:  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
8  (a) Taking the necessary steps to facilit ate the mobilization of support for 
adaptation in developing countries in the context of the limit to global average temperature 
increase referred to in Article 2 of the Agreement;  
(b) Reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of adaptation and support referred  
to in Article 7, paragraph 14(c) , of the Agreement ; 
46. Further requests  the Green Climate Fund to expedite support for the least developed 
countries and other developing country Parties for the formulation of national adaptation 
plans, consistent with decisi ons 1/CP.16 and 5/CP.17, and for the subsequent 
implementation of policies, projects and programmes identified by them;  
Loss and damage   
47. Decides  on the continuation of the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and 
Damage associated with Climate Change Im pacts, following the review in 2016;  
48. Requests  the Executive Committee of the Warsaw International Mechanism to 
establish a clearing house for risk transfer that serves as a repository for information on 
insurance and risk transfer, in order to facilitate t he efforts of Parties to develop and 
implement comprehensive risk management strategies;  
49. Also requests  the Executive Committee of the Warsaw International Mechanism to 
establish, according to its procedures and mandate, a task force to complement, draw upo n 
the work of and involve, as appropriate, existing bodies and expert groups under the 
Convention including the Adaptation Committee and the Least Developed Countries Expert 
Group, as well as relevant organizations and expert bodies outside the Convention,  to 
develop recommendations for integrated approaches to avert, minimize and address 
displacement related to the adverse impacts of climate change;  
50. Further requests  the Executive Committee of the Warsaw International Mechanism 
to initiate its work, at its next meeting, to operationalize the provisions referred to in 
paragraphs 48 and 49 above, and to report on progress thereon in its annual report;  
51. Agrees  that Article 8 of the Agreement does not involve or provide a basis for any 
liability or compensation;  
Finance  
52. Decides  that, in the implementation of the Agreement, financial resources provided 
to developing country Parties should enhance the implementation of their policies, 
strategies, regulations and action plans and their climate change actions with res pect to both 
mitigation and adaptation to contribute to the achievement of the purpose of the Agreement 
as defined in its Article 2;  
53. Also decides  that, in accordance with Article 9, paragraph 3, of the Agreement, 
developed countries intend to continue the ir existing collective mobilization goal through 
2025 in the context of meaningful mitigation actions and transparency on implementation; 
prior to 2025 the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement shall set a n ew collective quantified goal from a floor of USD 100 billion per 
year, taking into account the needs and priorities of developing countries;  
54. Recognizes  the importance of adequate and predictable financial resources, 
including for results -based payments, a s appropriate, for the implementation of policy 
approaches and positive incentives for reducing emissions from deforestation and forest 
degradation, and the role of conservation, sustainable management of forests and 
enhancement of forest carbon stocks; as  well as alternative policy approaches, such as joint 
mitigation and adaptation approaches for the integral and sustainable management of 
forests; while reaffirming the importance of non -carbon benefits associated with such FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
 9 approaches; encouraging the coor dination of support from, inter alia, public and private, 
bilateral and multilateral sources, such as the Green Climate Fund, and alternative sources 
in accordance with relevant decisions by the Conference of the Parties;  
55. Decides  to initiate, at its twenty -second session, a process to identify the information 
to be provided by Parties, in accordance with Article 9, paragraph 5, of the Agreement with 
a view to providing a recommendation for consideration and adoption by the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its first session;  
56. Also decides  to ensure that the provision of information in accordance with Article 
9, paragraph 7, of the Agreement shall be undertaken in accordance with the modalities, 
procedure s and guidelines referred to in paragraph 91 below;  
57. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice to develop 
modalities for the accounting of financial resources provided and mobilized through public 
interventions in accordance with  Article 9, paragraph 7, of the Agreement for consideration 
by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -fourth session (November 2018), with a view 
to making a recommendation for consideration and adoption by the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the  meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its first session;  
58. Decides  that the Green Climate Fund and the Global Environment Facility, the 
entities entrusted with the operation of the Financial Mechanism of the Convention, as well 
as the Least Devel oped Countries Fund and the Special Climate Change Fund, administered 
by the Global Environment Facility, shall serve the Agreement;  
59. Recognizes  that the Adaptation Fund may serve the Agreement, subject to relevant 
decisions by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Par is 
Agreement;  
60. Invites  the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Kyoto Protocol to consider the issue referred to in paragraph 59 above and make a 
recommendation to the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the  Parties to 
the Paris Agreement at its first session;  
61. Recommends  that the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties 
to the Paris Agreement shall provide guidance to the entities entrusted with the operation of 
the Financial Mechanism of the Convention on the policies, programme priorities and 
eligibility criteria related to the Agreement for transmission by the Conference of the 
Parties;  
62. Decides  that the guidance to the entities entrusted with the operations of the 
Financial Mechanism of the Convention in relevant decisions of the Conference of the 
Parties, including those agreed before adoption of the Agreement, shall apply mutatis 
mutandis to the Agreement;  
63. Also decides  that the Standing Committee on Finance shall serve the Agreement in 
line with its functions and responsibilities established under the Conference of the Parties;  
64. Urges  the institutions serving the Agreement to enhance the coordination and 
delivery of resources to support country -driven strategies through simplified and efficient 
application and approval procedures, and through continued readiness support to 
developing country Parties, including the least developed countries and small island 
developing States, as appropriate;  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
10  Technology development and t ransfer  
65. Takes note  of the interim report of the Technology Executive Committee on 
guidance on enhanced implementation of the results of technology needs assessments as 
contained in document FCCC/SB/2015/INF.3;  
66. Decides  to strengthen the Technology Mechanism and requests  the Technology 
Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Centre and Network, in supporting the 
implementation of the Agreement, to undertake further work relating to, inter alia:  
(a) Technology research, development and demonstration;  
(b) The d evelopment and  enhancement of endogenous capacities and 
technologies ; 
67. Requests the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice to initiate, at 
its forty -fourth session (May 2016), the elaboration of the technology framework 
established under Article 10, para graph 4, of the Agreement and to report on its findings to 
the Conference of the Parties, with a view to the Conference of the Parties making a 
recommendation on the framework to the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Pa ris Agreement for consideration and adoption at its first session, 
taking into consideration that the framework should facilitate, inter alia:  
(a) The undertaking and updating of technology needs assessments, as well as 
the enhanced implementation of their res ults, particularly technology action plans and 
project ideas, through the preparation of bankable projects ; 
(b) The provision of enhanced financial and technical support for the 
implementation of the results of the technology needs assessments;  
(c) The assessment of technologies that are ready for transfer;  
(d) The enhancement of enabling environments for and the addressing of barriers 
to the development and transfer of socially and environmentally sound technologies ; 
68. Decides that the Technology Executive Committee and  the Climate Technology 
Centre and Network shall report to the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of 
the Parties to the Paris Agreement , through the subsidiary bodies, on their activities to 
support the implementation of the Agreement;  
69. Also d ecides  to undertake a periodic assessment of the effectiveness and  adequacy of 
the support provided to the Technology Mechanism in supporting the implementation of the 
Agreement on matters relating to technology development and transfer;  
70. Requests  the Subsi diary Body for Implementation  to initiate, at its forty -fourth 
session , the elaboration of the scope of and modalities for the periodic assessment referred 
to in paragraph 69 above, taking into account the review of the Climate Technology Centre 
and Networ k as referred to in decision 2/CP.17, annex VII, paragraph 20, and the 
modalities for the global stocktake referred to in Article 14 of the Agreement, for 
consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -fifth session 
(November 2019);  
Capacity -building  
71. Decides  to establish the Paris Committee on Capacity -building  whose aim will be to 
address gaps and needs, both current and emerging, in implementing capacity -building in 
developing country Parties and further en hancing capacity -building efforts, including with 
regard to coherence and coordination in capacity -building activities under the Convention;  
72. Also decides  that the Paris Committee on Capacity -building will manage and 
oversee the workplan referred to in paragraph 73 below;  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
 11 73. Further d ecides  to launch a workplan for the period 2016 –2020 with the following 
activities:  
(a) Assessing how to increase synergies through cooperation and avoid 
duplication among existing bodies established under the Convention that implement 
capacity -building activities, including through collaborating with institutions under and 
outside the Convention;  
(b) Identifying capacity gaps and needs and recommending ways to address 
them ; 
(c) Promoting the development and dissemination of tools and methodologies for 
the implementation of capacity -building;  
(d) Fostering global, regional, national and subnational cooperation;  
(e) Identifying and collecting good practices, challenges, experiences and lessons 
learned from work on capacity -building by bodies est ablished under the Convention;  
(f) Exploring how developing country Parties can take ownership of building 
and maintaining capacity over time and space;  
(g) Identifying opportunities to strengthen capacity at the national, regional and 
subnational level;  
(h) Fostering  dialogue, coordination, collaboration and coherence among 
relevant processes and initiatives under the Convention, including through exchanging 
information on capacity -building activities and strategies of bodies established under the 
Convention;  
(i) Providi ng guidance to the secretariat on the maintenance and further 
development of the web -based capacity -building portal;  
74. Decides  that the Paris Committee on Capacity -building  will annually focus on an 
area or theme related to enhanced technical exchange on capacity -building, with the 
purpose of maintaining up -to-date knowledge on the successes and challenges in building 
capacity effectively in a particular area;  
75. Requests  the S ubsidiary Body for Implementation  to organize annual in -session 
meeting s of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building;  
76. Also r equests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to develop the terms of 
reference for the Paris Committee on Capacity -building, in th e context of the third 
comprehensive review of the implementation of the capacity -building framework , also 
taking into account paragraphs 71 –75 above and paragraphs 79 and 80 below,  with a view 
to recommending a draft decision on this matter for considerat ion and adoption by the 
Conference of the Parties at its twenty -second session;  
77. Invites  Parties to submit their views on the membership of the Paris Committee on 
Capacity -building  by 9 March 2016 ;2 
78. Requests  the secretariat to compile the submissions referred to in paragraph 77 
above into a miscellaneous document for consideration by the Subsidiary Body for 
Implementation at its forty -fourth session;  
79. Decides  that the inputs to the Paris Committee on Capacity -building  will include, 
inter alia, submissions, the outcome of the third comprehensive review of the 
implementation of the capacity -building framework, the secretariat’s annual synthesis 
report on the implementation of the framework for capacity -building i n developing 
                                                           
 2 Parties should submit their views via the submissions portal at <http://www.unfccc.int/5900 >.  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
12  countries, the secretariat’s compilation and synthesis report on capacity -building work of 
bodies established under the Convention and its Kyoto Protocol , and reports on the Durban 
Forum and the capacity -building portal ; 
80. Requests  the Paris Com mittee on Capacity -building  to prepare annual technical 
progress reports on its work , and  to make these reports available at the sessions of the 
Subsidiary Body for Implementation  coinciding with the sessions of the Conference of the 
Parties ; 
81. Decides , at its twenty -fifth session , to review the progress, need for extension, the 
effectiveness and enhancement of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building and to take 
any action it considers appropriate, with a view to making recommend ations  to the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its 
first session on enhancing institutional arrangements for capacity -building consistent with 
Article 11, paragraph 5, of the Agreement;  
82. Calls upon  all Parties to ensure that edu cation, training and public awareness, as 
reflected in Article 6 of the Convention and in Article 12 of the Agreement, are adequately 
considered in their contribution to capacity -building;  
83. Invites  the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the  Parties to the 
Paris Agreement, at its first session, to explore ways of enhancing the implementation of 
training, public awareness, public participation and public access to information so as to 
enhance actions under the Agreement;  
Transparency of action  and support  
84. Decides  to establish a Capacity -building Initiative for Transparency in order to build 
institutional and technical capacity, both pre - and post -2020; this initiative will support 
developing country Parties, upon request, in meeting enhanced transparency requirements 
as defined in Article 13 of the Agreement in a timely manner;  
85. Also decides  that the Capacity -building Initiative for Transparency will aim:  
(a) To strengthen national institutions for transparency -related activities in line 
with natio nal priorities;  
(b) To provide relevant tools, training and assistance for meeting the provisions 
stipulated in Article 13 of the Agreement;  
(c) To assist in the improvement of transparency over time;  
86. Urges  and requests  the Global Environment Facility to make arra ngements to 
support the establishment and operation of the Capacity -building Initiative for 
Transparency as a priority reporting -related need, including through voluntary contributions 
to support developing country Parties in the sixth replenishment of the  Global Environment 
Facility and future replenishment cycles, to complement existing support under the Global 
Environment Facility;  
87. Decides  to assess the implementation of the Capacity -building Initiative for 
Transparency in the context of the seventh revi ew of the Financial Mechanism;  
88. Requests that the Global Environment Facility, as an operating entity of the  
Financial Mechanism, include in its annual report to the Conference of the Parties the 
progress of work in the design, development and implementation of the Capacity -building 
Initiative for Transparency referred to in paragraph 84 above starting in 2016;  
89. Decides  that, in accordance with Article 13, paragraph 2, of the Agreement, 
developing country Parties shall be provided flexibility in the implementation of the 
provisions of that Article , including in the scope, frequency and level of detail of reporting, FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
 13 and in the scope of review, and that the scope of review could provide for in -country 
reviews to be optional, while such flexibilities  shall be reflected in the development of 
modalities, procedures and guidelines referred to in paragraph 91 below;  
90. Also decides  that all Parties, except for the least developed country Parties and small 
island developing States, shall submit the informatio n referred to in Article 13, paragraphs 
7, 8, 9 and 10, of the Agreement, as appropriate, no less frequently than on a biennial basis, 
and that the least developed country Parties and small island developing States may submit 
this information at their disc retion;  
91. Requests  the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris Agreement to develop 
recommendations for modalities, procedures and guidelines in accordance with Article 13, 
paragraph 13, of the Agreement, and to define the year of their first and subsequent revie w 
and update, as appropriate, at regular intervals, for consideration by the Conference of the 
Parties , at its twenty -fourth session, with a view to forwarding them to the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement for consideration 
and adoption at its first session;  
92. Also requests  the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris Agreement, in developing the 
recommendations for the modalities, procedures and guidelines referred to in paragraph 91  
above, to take into ac count, inter alia:  
(a) The importance of facilitating improved reporting and transparency over 
time;  
(b) The need to provide flexibility to those developing country Parties that need 
it in the light of their capacities;  
(c) The need to promote transparency, accuracy, completeness, consistency and 
comparability;  
(d) The need to avoid duplication as well as undue burden on Parties and the 
secretariat ; 
(e) The need to ensure that Parties maintain at least the frequency and quality of 
reporting in accordance with their respective obligations under the Convention;  
(f) The need to ensure that double counting is avoided;  
(g) The need to ensure environmental integrity ; 
93. Further requests  the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris Agreement, in developing 
the modalities, procedures and guidelines refe rred to in paragraph 91 above, to draw on the 
experiences from and take into account other ongoing relevant processes under the 
Convention;  
94. Requests  the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris Agreement , in developing the 
modalities, procedures and guidelines re ferred to in paragraph 91 above, to consider, inter 
alia:  
(a) The types of flexibility available to those developing country Parties that 
need it on the basis of their capacities;  
(b) The consistency between the methodology communicated in the nationally 
determined contribution and the methodology for reporting on progress made towards 
achieving individual Parties’ respective nationally determined contribution;  
(c) That Parties report information on adaptation action and planning including, 
if appropriate , their national adaptation plans, with a view to collectively exchanging 
information and sharing lessons learned ; FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
14  (d) Support provided, enhancing delivery of support for both adaptation and 
mitigation through, inter alia, the common tabular formats for reporting s upport, and taking 
into account issues considered by the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological 
Advice on methodologies for reporting on financial information, and enhancing the 
reporting by developing country Parties on support received, includi ng the use, impact and 
estimated results thereof;  
(e) Information in the biennial assessments and other reports  of the Standing 
Committee on Finance  and other relevant bodies under the Convention;  
(f) Information on the  social and economic impact of response measu res; 
95. Also requests the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris Agreement, in developing 
recommendations for the modalities, procedures and guidelines referred to in paragraph 91 
above, to enhance the transparency of support provided in accordance with Article 9 of the 
Agreement;  
96. Further  requests  the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris Agreement to report on 
the progress of work on the modalities, procedures and guidelines  referred to in  paragraph 
91 above to future sessions of the Conference of the Parties, and tha t this work be 
concluded no later than 2018;  
97. Decides that the modalities, procedures and guidelines developed under paragraph 
91 above shall be applied upon the entry into force of the Paris Agreement;  
98. Also decides that the modalities, procedures and guidelines of this transparency 
framework shall build upon and eventually supersede the measurement, reporting and 
verification system established by decision 1/CP.16, paragraphs 40 –47 and 60 –64, and 
decision 2/CP.17, pa ragraphs 12 –62, immediately following the submission of the final 
biennial reports and biennial update reports;   
Global stocktake  
99. Requests  the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris Agreement  to identify the sources 
of input for the global stocktake referred t o in Article 14 of the Agreement and to report to 
the Conference of the Parties, with a view to the Conference of the Parties  making a 
recommendation to the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to 
the Paris Agreement  for consider ation and adoption at its first session, including, but not 
limited to:  
(a) Information  on:  
(i) The overall effect of the nationally determined contributions communicated 
by Parties;  
(ii) The state of adaptation efforts, support, experiences and priorities from the 
communications referred to in Article 7, paragraphs 10 and 11, of the Agreement, 
and reports referred to in Article 13, paragraph 8, of the Agreement;   
(iii) The mobilization and provision of support;  
(b) The latest reports of the Intergovernmental Panel o n Climate Change;  
(c) Reports  of the subsidiary bodies ; 
100. Also requests  the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice to 
provide advice on how the assessments of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 
can inform the global stocktake of the i mplementation of the Agreement pursuant to its 
Article 14 and to report on this matter to the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris 
Agreement  at its second session;  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
 15 101. Further requests  the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris Agreement  to develop 
modalities for the global stocktake referred to in Article 14 of the Agreement and to report 
to the Conference of the Parties, with a view to the Conference of the Parties making a 
recommendation to the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to 
the P aris Agreement for consideration and adoption at its first session;  
Facilitating implementation and compliance  
102. Decides  that the committee referred to in Article 15, paragraph 2, of the Agreement 
shall consist of 12 members with recognized competence in rel evant scientific, technical, 
socioeconomic or legal fields, to be elected by the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  on the basis of equitable geographical 
representation, with two members each from the five regional groups of the United Nations 
and one member each from the small island developing States and the least developed 
countries, while taking into account the goal of gender balance;  
103. Requests the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris Agreement  to deve lop the 
modalities and procedures for the effective operation of the committee referred to in Article 
15, paragraph 2, of the Agreement, with a view to the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris 
Agreement  completing its work on such modalities and procedures fo r consideration and 
adoption by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement  at its first session;  
Final c lauses  
104. Also requests  the secretariat, solely for the purposes of Article 21 of the Agreement, 
to make av ailable on its website on the date of adoption of the Agreement as well as in the 
report of the Conference of the Parties on its twenty -first session, information on the most 
up-to-date total and per cent of greenhouse gas emissions communicated by Parties  to the 
Convention in their national communications, greenhouse gas inventory reports, biennial 
reports or biennial update reports;  
IV. Enhanced action prior to 2020  
105. Resolves  to ensure the highest possible mitigation efforts in the pre -2020 period, 
including b y: 
(a) Urging all Parties to the Kyoto Protocol that have not already done so to 
ratify and implement the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol;  
(b) Urging all Parties that have not already done so to make and implement a 
mitigation pledge under the Cancun Agreemen ts; 
(c) Reiterating its resolve, as set out in decision 1/CP.19, paragraphs 3 and 4, to 
accelerate the full implementation of the decisions constituting the agreed outcome 
pursuant to decision 1/CP.13 and enhance ambition in the pre -2020 period in order to 
ensure the highest possible mitigation efforts under the Convention by all Parties;  
(d) Inviting developing country Parties that have not submitted their first biennial 
update reports to do so as soon as possible;  
(e) Urging all Parties to participate in the existing  measurement, reporting and 
verification processes under the Cancun Agreements, in a timely manner, with a view to 
demonstrating progress made in the implementation of their mitigation pledges;  
106. Encourages  Parties to promote the voluntary cancellation by Pa rty and non -Party 
stakeholders, without double counting, of units issued under the Kyoto Protocol, including 
certified emission reductions that are valid for the second commitment period;  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
16  107. Urges host and purchasing Parties to report transparently on interna tionally 
transferred mitigation outcomes, including outcomes used to meet international pledges, 
and emission units issued under the Kyoto Protocol with a view to promoting 
environmental integrity and avoiding double counting;  
108. Recognizes  the social, economic and environmental value of voluntary mitigation 
actions and their co -benefits for adaptation, health and sustainable development;  
109. Resolves  to strengthen, in the period 2016 –2020, the existing technical examination 
process on mitigati on as defined in decision 1/CP.19, paragraph 5(a), and decision 1/CP.20, 
paragraph 19, taking into account the latest scientific knowledge, including by:  
(a) Encouraging Parties, Convention bodies and international organizations to 
engage in this process, inc luding, as appropriate, in cooperation with relevant non -Party 
stakeholders, to share their experiences and suggestions, including from regional events, 
and to cooperate in facilitating the implementation of policies, practices and actions 
identified durin g this process in accordance with national sustainable development 
priorities;  
(b) Striving to improve, in consultation with Parties, access to and participation 
in this process by developing country Party and non -Party experts;  
(c) Requesting the Technology Execu tive Committee and the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network in accordance with their respective mandates:  
(i) To engage in the technical expert meetings and enhance their efforts to 
facilitate and support Parties in scaling up the implementation of policies, practices 
and actions identified during this process;  
(ii) To provide regular updates during the technical expert meetings on the 
progress made in facilitating the implementation of policies, practices and actions 
previously identified during this process;  
(iii) To include information on their activities under this process in their joint 
annual report to the Conference of the Parties;  
(d) Encouraging Parties to make effective use of the Climate Technology Centre 
and Network to obtain assistance to develop economically, en vironmentally and socially 
viable project proposals in the high mitigation potential areas identified in this process;  
110. Encourages  the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism of the Convention to 
engage in the technical expert meetings and to inform p articipants of their contribution to 
facilitating progress in the implementation of policies, practices and actions identified 
during the technical examination process;  
111. Requests  the secretariat to organize the process referred to in paragraph 109 above 
and disseminate its results, including by:  
(a) Organizing, in consultation with the Technology Executive Committee  and 
relevant expert organizations, regular technical expert meetings focusing on specific 
policies, practices and actions representing best practice s and with the potential to be 
scalable and replicable;  
(b) Updating, on an annual basis, following the meetings referred to in paragraph 
111(a) above and in time to serve as input to the summary for policymakers referred to in 
paragraph 111(c) below, a techn ical paper on the mitigation benefits and co -benefits of 
policies, practices and actions for enhancing mitigation ambition, as well as on options for 
supporting their implementation, information on which should be made available in a user -
friendly online f ormat;  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
 17 (c) Preparing, in consultation with the champions referred to in paragraph 121 
below, a summary for policymakers, with information on specific policies, practices and 
actions representing best practices and with the potential to be scalable and replicab le, and 
on options to support their implementation, as well as on relevant collaborative initiatives, 
and publishing the summary at least two months in advance of each session of the 
Conference of the Parties as input for the high -level event referred to i n paragraph 120 
below;  
112. Decides  that the process referred to in paragraph 109 above should be organized 
jointly by the Subsidiary Body for Implementation and the Subsidiary Body for Scientific 
and Technological Advice and should take place on an ongoing  basis until 2020;  
113. Also decides  to conduct in 2017 an assessment of the process referred to in 
paragraph 109 above so as to improve its effectiveness;  
114. Resolves to enhance the provision of urgent and adequate finance, technology and 
capacity -building suppor t by developed country Parties in order to enhance the level of 
ambition of pre -2020 action by Parties, and in this regard  strongly urges  developed country 
Parties to scale up their level of financial support, with a concrete road map to achieve the 
goal o f jointly providing USD 100 billion annually by 2020 for mitigation and adaptation 
while significantly increasing adaptation finance from current levels and to further provide 
appropriate technology and capacity -building support;   
115. Decides  to conduct a faci litative dialogue in conjunction with the twenty -second 
session of the Conference of the Parties to assess the progress in implementing decision 
1/CP.19, paragraphs 3 and 4, and identify relevant opportunities to enhance the provision of 
financial resource s, including for technology development and transfer, and capacity -
building support, with a view to identifying ways to enhance the ambition of mitigation 
efforts by all Parties, including identifying relevant opportunities to enhance the provision 
and mob ilization of support and enabling environments;  
116. Acknowledges  with appreciation the results of the Lima -Paris Action Agenda, which 
build on the climate summit convened on 23 September 2014 by the Secretary -General of 
the United Nations;  
117. Welcomes the efforts  of non -Party stakeholders to scale up their climate actions, and 
encourages  the registration of those actions in the Non -State Actor Zone for Climate 
Action platform;3 
118. Encourages  Parties to work closely with non -Party stakeholders to catalyse efforts 
to strengthen mitigation and adaptation action;  
119. Also encourages  non-Party stakeholders to increase their engagement in the 
processes referred to in paragraph 109 above and paragraph 124 below;  
120. Agrees  to convene, pursuant to decision 1/CP.20, paragraph 21, buil ding on the 
Lima -Paris Action Agenda and in conjunction with each session of the Conference of the 
Parties during the period 2016 –2020, a high -level event that:  
(a) Further  strengthens high -level engagement on the implementation of policy 
options and actions a rising from the processes referred to in paragraph 109 above and 
paragraph 124 below, drawing on the summary for policymakers referred to in paragraph 
111(c) above;  
(b) Provides an opportunity for announcing new or strengthened voluntary 
efforts, initiatives a nd coalitions, including the implementation of policies, practices and 
actions arising from the processes referred to in paragraph 109 above and paragraph 124 
                                                           
 3  <http://climateaction.unfccc.int/ >.  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
18  below and presented in the summary for policymakers referred to in paragraph 111(c) 
above;  
(c) Takes stock of related progress and recognizes new or strengthened voluntary 
efforts, initiatives and coalitions;  
(d) Provides meaningful and regular opportunities for the effective high -level 
engagement of dignitaries of Parties, international organizations, international cooperative 
initiatives and non -Party stakeholders;  
121. Decides that two high -level champions shall be appointed to act on behalf of the 
President of the Conference of the Parties to facilitate through strengthened high -level 
engagement in the pe riod 2016 –2020 the successful execution of existing efforts and the 
scaling -up and introduction of new or strengthened voluntary efforts, initiatives and 
coalitions, including by:  
(a) Working with the Executive Secretary and the current and incoming 
Presidents  of the Conference of the Parties to coordinate the annual high -level event 
referred to in paragraph 120 above;  
(b) Engaging with interested Parties and non -Party stakeholders, including to 
further the voluntary initiatives of the Lima -Paris Action Agenda;  
(c) Providing guidance to the secretariat on the organization of technical expert 
meetings referred to in paragraph 111(a) above and paragraph 129(a) below;  
122. Also decides  that the high -level champions referred to in paragraph 121 above 
should normally serve for a term of two years, with their terms overlapping for a full year 
to ensure continuity, such that:  
(a) The President of the twenty -first session of the Conference of the Parties 
should appoint one champion, who should  serve for one year from the date of the 
appo intment until the last day of the twenty -second session of the Conference of the 
Parties;  
(b) The President of the twenty -second session of the Conference of the Parties 
should appoint one champion who should  serve for two years from the date of the 
appointmen t until the last day of the twenty -third session of the Conference of the Parties 
(November 2017);  
(c) Thereafter, each subsequent President of the Conference of the Parties should 
appoint one champion who should  serve for two years and succeed the previously 
appointed champion whose term has ended;  
123. Invites  all interested Parties and relevant organizations to provide support for the 
work of the champions referred to in paragraph 121 above;  
124. Decides  to launch, in the period 2016 2020, a technical examination proc ess on 
adaptation;   
125. Also decides  that the process referred to in paragraph 124 above will endeavour to 
identify concrete opportunities for strengthening resilience, reducing vulnerabilities and 
increasing the understanding and implementation of adaptation actions;  
126. Further decides  that the process referred to in paragraph 124 above should be 
organized jointly by the Subsidiary Body for Implementation and the Subsidiary Body for 
Scientific and Technological Advice, and conducted by the Adaptation Committee;  
127. Decides  that the process referred to in paragraph 124 above will be pursued by:  
(a) Facilitating the sharing of good practices, experiences and lessons learned;  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
 19 (b) Identifying actions that could significantly enhance the implementation of 
adaptation actions, inclu ding actions that could enhance economic diversification and have 
mitigation co -benefits;  
(c) Promoting cooperative action on adaptation;  
(d) Identifying opportunities to strengthen enabling environments and enhance 
the provision of support for adaptation in the context of specific policies, practices and 
actions;  
128. Also decides  that the technical examination process on adaptation referred to in 
paragraph 124 above will take into account the process, modalities, outputs, outcomes and 
lessons learned from the techni cal examination process on mitigation referred to in 
paragraph 109 above;  
129. Requests  the secretariat to support the process referred to in paragraph 124 above 
by: 
(a) Organizing regular technical expert meetings focusing on specific policies, 
strategies and acti ons;  
(b) Preparing annually, on the basis of the meetings referred to in paragraph 
129(a) above and in time to serve as an input to the summary for policymakers referred to 
in paragraph 111(c) above, a technical paper on opportunities to enhance adaptation ac tion, 
as well as options to support their implementation, information on which should be made 
available in a user -friendly online format;  
130. Decides  that in conducting the process referred to in paragraph 124 above, the 
Adaptation Committee will engage with and explore ways to take into account, synergize 
with and build on the existing arrangements for adaptation -related work programmes, 
bodies and in stitutions under the Convention so as to ensure coherence and maximum 
value;  
131. Also decides  to conduct, in conjunction with the assessment referred to in paragraph 
113 above, an assessment of the process referred to in paragraph 124 above, so as to 
improve its effectiveness;  
132. Invites  Parties and observer organizations to submit information on the opportunities 
referred to in paragraph 125 above by 3 February 2016;  
V. Non-Party stakeholders  
133. Welcomes the efforts of all non-Party stakeholders  to address and respon d to climate 
change, including those of civil society, the private sector, financial institutions, cities and 
other subnational authorities;  
134. Invites the non-Party stakeholders  referred to in paragraph 133 above to scale up 
their efforts and support actions to reduce emissions and/or to build resilience and decrease 
vulnerability to the adverse effects of climate change and demonstrate these efforts via the 
Non-State Actor Zone f or Climate Action platform4 referred to in paragraph 117 above;  
135. Recognizes  the need to strengthen knowledge, technologies, practices and efforts of 
local communities and indigenous peoples related to addressing and responding to climate 
change, and establi shes a platform for the exchange of experiences and sharing of best 
practices on mitigation and adaptation in a holistic and integrated manner ; 
                                                           
 4 <http://climateaction.unfccc.int/ >.  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
20  136. Also recognizes  the important role of providing incentives for emission reduction 
activities, including tools such as domestic policies and carbon pricing;  
VI. Administrative and budgetary matters  
137. Takes  note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be und ertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in this decision and requests  that the actions of the secretariat 
called for in this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources;  
138. Emphasizes the urgency of making additional resources ava ilable for the 
implementation of the relevant actions, including actions referred to in this decision, and 
the implementation of the work programme referred to in paragraph 9 above;  
139. Urges Parties to make voluntary contributions for the timely implementatio n of this 
decision.  
 
 FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
 21 Annex  
Paris Agreement  
The Parties to this Agreement , 
Being Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, 
hereinafter referred to as “the Convention”,  
Pursuant to the Durban Platform for Enhanced Action established by decision 
1/CP.17 of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention at its seventeenth session, 
In pursuit of the objective of the Convention,  and b eing guided by its principles, 
including the principle of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities and 
respective capabilities, in the light of different national circumstances,  
Recognizing  the need for an effective and progressive response to the urgent 
threat of climate change on the basis of the best available scientific knowledge,  
Also recognizing  the specific needs and special circumstances of developing country 
Parties, especially those that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate 
change, as provided for in the Convention,  
Taking full account of the specific needs and specia l situations of the least 
developed countries with regard to funding and transfer of technology,  
Recognizing  that Parties may be affected not only by climate change, but also by the 
impacts of the measures taken in response to it,  
Emphasizing the intrinsic relationship that cl imate change actions, responses and 
impacts have with equitable access to sustainable development and eradication of poverty,  
Recognizing  the fundamental priority of safeguarding food security and ending 
hunger, and the particular v ulnerabilities of food production systems to the adverse impacts 
of climate change,  
Taking into account the imperatives of a just transition of the workforce and the 
creation of decent work and quality jobs in accordance with nationally defined development  
priorities , 
Acknowledging  that climate change is a common concern of humankind, Parties 
should, when taking action to address climate change, respect, promote and consider their 
respective obligations on human rights, the right to health, the rights of indigenous peoples, 
local communities, migrants, children, persons with disabilities and people in vulnerable 
situations and the right to development, as well as gender equality, empowerment of 
women and intergenerational equity,   
Recognizing the importanc e of the conservation and enhancement, as appropriate, of 
sinks and reservoirs of the greenhouse gases referred to in the Convention,  
Noting the importance of ensuring  the integrity of all ecosystems, including oceans, 
and the protection of biodiversity, r ecognized by some cultures as Mother Earth, and noting 
the importance for some of the concept of “climate justice”, when taking action to address 
climate change,  
Affirming  the importance of education, training, public awareness, public 
participation, publi c access to information and cooperation at all levels on the matters 
addressed in this Agreement,  
Recognizing  the importance of the engagements of all levels of government and 
various actors, in accordance with respective national legislations of Parties,  in addressing 
climate change,  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
22  Also recognizing  that sustainable lifestyles and sustainable patterns of consumption 
and production, with developed country Parties taking the lead, play an important role in 
addressing climate change,  
Have agreed as follows:  
Article 1  
For the purpose of this Agreement, the definitions contained in Article 1 of the 
Convention shall apply. In addition:  
(a) “Convention” means the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change, ad opted in New York on 9 May 1992;   
(b) “Conference of the Parties” means the Conference o f the Parties to the 
Convention;  
(c) “Party” means a Party to this Agreement.  
Article 2  
1. This Agreement, in enhancing the implementation of the Convention, including its 
objective, aims to strengthen the global response to  the threat of climate change, in the 
context of sustainable development and efforts to eradicate poverty, including by:   
(a) Holding the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2 °C 
above pre -industrial levels and pursu ing efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5 °C 
above pre -industrial levels, recognizing that this would significantly reduce the risks and 
impacts of climate change;  
(b) Increasing the ability to adapt to the adverse impacts of climate change and 
foster climate resilience and low greenhouse gas emission s development, in a manner that 
does not threaten food production; and  
(c) Making finance  flows consistent with a pathway towards low greenhouse gas 
emission s and climate -resilient development.  
2. This Agreement will be implemented to reflect equity and the principle of common 
but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities, in the light of different 
national circumstances.  
Article 3  
As nationally determined contributions to the global response t o climate change, all 
Parties are to undertake and communicate ambitious efforts as defined in Articles 4, 7, 9, 
10, 11 and 13 with the view to achieving the purpose of this Agreement as set out in Article 
2. The e fforts of all Parties  will represent a pro gression over time, while recognizing the 
need to support developing country Parties for the effective implementation of this 
Agreement.  
Article 4  
1. In order to achieve the long -term temperature goal set out in Article 2, Parties aim to 
reach global peakin g of greenhouse gas emissions as soon as possible, recognizing that 
peaking will take longer for developing country Parties, and to undertake rapid reductions 
thereafter in accordance with best available science, so as to achieve a balance between 
anthropo genic emissions by sources and removals by sinks of greenhouse gases in the 
second half of this century, on the basis of equity, and in the context of sustainable 
development and efforts to eradicate poverty.  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
 23 2. Each Party shall prepare, communicate and main tain successive nationally 
determined contributions that it intends to achieve. Parties shall pursue domestic mitigation 
measures, with the aim of achieving the objectives of such contributions.  
3. Each Party’s successive nationally determined contribution w ill represent a 
progression beyond the Party’s then current nationally determined contribution and reflect 
its highest possible ambition, reflecting its common but differentiated responsibilities and 
respective capabilities, in the light of different natio nal circumstances.  
4. Developed country Parties should continue taking the lead by undertaking economy -
wide absolute emission reduction targets. Developing country Parties should continue 
enhancing their mitigation efforts, and are encouraged to move over tim e towards 
economy -wide emission reduction or limitation targets in the light of different national 
circumstances.  
5. Support shall be provided to developing country Parties for the implementation of 
this Article, in accordance with Articles 9, 10 and 11, recognizing that enhanced support for 
developing country Parties will allow for higher ambition in their actions .  
6. The least developed countries and small island developing States may prepare and 
communicate strategies, plans and actions for low greenhouse ga s emission s development 
reflecting their special circumstances.   
7. Mitigation co -benefits resulting from Parties’ adaptation actions and/or economic 
diversification plans can contribute to mitigation outcomes under this Article.  
8. In communicating their nationally determined contributions, all  Parties shall provide 
the information necessary for clarity, transparency  and understanding in accordance with 
decision 1/CP.21  and any relevant decisions of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of t he Parties to this Agreement.  
9. Each Party shall communicate a nationally determined contribution every five years 
in accordance with decision 1/CP.21 and any relevant decisions of the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement  and be informed by the 
outcomes of the global stocktake referred to in Article 14.  
10. The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this 
Agreement  shall consider common time frames for nationally determined contributions at 
its first session.  
11. A Party may at any time adjust its existing nationally determined contribution with a 
view to enhancing its level of ambition, in accordance with guidance adopted by the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement .  
12. Nationally determined contributions  communicated by Parties shall be recorded  in a 
public registry maintained by the secretariat.  
13. Parties shall account for their nationally determined contributions. In accounting for 
anthropogenic emission s and removals corresponding to their nationally determined 
contributions, Parties shall promote environmental integrity, transparency, accuracy, 
completeness, comparability and consistency, and ensure the avoidance of double counting, 
in accordance with g uidance adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to this Agreement .  
14. In the context of their nationally determined contributions, when recognizing and 
implementing mitigation actions with respect to anthropogenic emiss ions and removals, 
Parties should take into account, as appropriate, existing methods and guidance under the 
Convention, in the light of the provisions of paragraph 13 of this Article.  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
24  15. Parties shall take into consideration  in the implementation of this Agr eement the 
concerns of Parties with economies most affected by the impacts of response measures, 
particularly developing country Parties.  
16. Parties, including regional economic integration organizations and their member 
States, that have reached an agreemen t to act jointly under paragraph 2 of this Article shall 
notify the secretariat of the terms of that agreement, including the emission level allocated 
to each Party within the relevant time period, when they communicate their nationally 
determined contribu tions. The secretariat shall in turn inform the Parties and signatories to 
the Convention of the terms of that agreement.  
17. Each party to such an agreement shall be responsible for its emission level as set out 
in the agreement referred to in paragraph 16 of  this Article  in accordance with paragraphs 
13 and 14 of this Article and Articles 13 and 15.  
18. If Parties acting jointly do so in the framework of, and together with, a regional 
economic integration organization which is itself a Party to this Agreement, e ach member 
State of that regional economic integration organization individually, and together with the 
regional economic integration organization, shall be responsible for its emission level as set 
out in the agreement communicated under paragraph 16 of t his Article in accordance with 
paragraphs 13 and 14 of this Article and Articles 13 and 15.  
19. All Parties should strive to formulate and communicate long -term low greenhouse 
gas emission development strategies, mindful of Article 2 taking into account their 
common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities, in the light of 
different national circumstances.  
Article 5  
1. Parties should take action to conserve and enhance, as appropriate, sinks and 
reservoirs of greenhouse gases as referred to  in Article 4, paragraph  1(d), of the 
Convention, including forests.  
2. Parties are encouraged to take action to implement and support, including through 
results -based payments, the existing framework as set out in related guidance and decisions 
already agre ed under the Convention for: policy approaches and positive incentives for 
activities relating to reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation, and the 
role of conservation, sustainable management of forests and enhancement of forest carbon  
stocks in developing countries; and alternative policy approaches, such as joint mitigation 
and adaptation approaches for the integral and sustainable management of forests, while 
reaffirming the importance of incentivizing, as appropriate, non -carbon ben efits associated 
with such approaches.  
Article 6  
1. Parties recognize  that some Parties choose to pursue voluntary cooperation in the 
implementation of their nationally determined contributions to allow for higher ambition in 
their mitigation and adaptation actions and to promote sustainable development and 
environmental in tegrity.  
2. Parties shall, where engaging on a voluntary basis in cooperative approaches that 
involve the use of internationally transferred mitigation outcomes towards nationally 
determined contributions , promote sustainable development and ensure environmen tal 
integrity and transparency, including in governance, and shall apply robust accounting to 
ensure, inter alia, the avoidance of double counting, consistent with guidance adopted by 
the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement.   FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
 25 3. The use of internationally  transferred mitigation outcomes to achieve nationally 
determined contributions under this Agreement shall be voluntary and authorized by 
participating Parties.  
4. A mechanism to contribute  to the mitigation of greenh ouse gas emissions and 
support sustainable development is hereby established under the authority and guidance of 
the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement  for use 
by Parties on a voluntary basis. It shall be supe rvised by a body designated by the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement , and shall  
aim:  
(a) To promote the mitigation of greenhouse gas emissions while fostering 
sustainable development;  
(b) To incentivize and facilita te participation in the mitigation of greenhouse gas 
emissions by public and private entities authorized by a Party;  
(c) To contribute to the reduction of emission levels in the host Party, which will 
benefit from mitigation activities resulting in emission re ductions that can also be used by 
another Party to fulfil its nationally determined contribution;  and 
(d) To deliver an overall mitigation in global emissions.  
5. Emission reductions resulting from the mechanism referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Article shall not be used to demonstrate achievement of the host Party’s nationally 
determined contribution if used by another Party to demonstrate achievement of its 
natio nally determined contribution.  
6. The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this 
Agreement  shall ensure that a share of the proceeds from activities under the mechanism 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article is used to cover administrative expenses as well as 
to assist developing country Parties that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of 
climate change to meet the costs of adaptation.  
7. The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this 
Agreement  shall adopt rules, modalities and procedures for the mechanism referred to in 
paragraph 4 of this Article at its first session.  
8. Parties recognize the importance of integrated, holistic and balanced non -market 
approaches being available to Parties to assist in the implementation of their nationally 
determined contributions, in the context of sustainable development and poverty 
eradication, in a coordinated and effective manner, including through, inter alia, mitigation, 
adaptation, finance, technolo gy transfer and capacity -building, as appropriate. These 
approaches shall aim to:  
(a) Promote mitigation and adaptation ambition;  
(b) Enhance public and private sector participation in the implementation of 
nationally determined contributions; and  
(c) Enable opportuni ties for coordination across instruments and relevant 
institutional arrangements.  
9. A framework for non -market approaches to sustainable development is hereby 
defined to promote the non -market approaches referred to in paragraph 8 of this Article.  
Article 7  
1. Parties hereby establish the global goal on adaptation of enhancing adaptive 
capacity, strengthening resilience and reducing vulnerability to climate  change, with a view FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
26  to contributing to sustainable development and ensuring an adequate adaptation respon se in 
the context of the temperature goal referred to in Article 2.  
2. Parties recognize that adaptation is a global challenge faced by all with local, 
subnational, national, regional and international dimensions, and that it is a key component 
of and makes a  contribution to the long -term global response to climate change to protect 
people, livelihoods and ecosystems, taking into account the urgent and immediate needs of 
those developing country Parties that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects o f 
climate change.  
3. The adaptation efforts of developing country Parties shall be recognized, in 
accordance with the modalities to be adopted by the Conference of the Parties serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement  at its first session.  
4. Parti es recognize that the current need for adaptation is significant and that greater 
levels of mitigation can reduce the need for additional adaptation efforts, and that greater 
adaptation needs can involve greater adaptation costs.  
5. Parties acknowledge that a daptation action should follow a country -driven, gender -
responsive, participatory and fully transparent approach, taking into consideration 
vulnerable groups, communities and ecosystems, and should be based on and guided by the 
best available science and, as appropriate, traditional knowledge, knowledge of indigenous 
peoples and local knowledge systems, with a view to integrating adaptation into relevant 
socioeconomic and environmental policies and actions, where appropriate.  
6. Parties recognize the importanc e of support for and international cooperation on 
adaptation efforts and the importance of taking into account the needs of developing 
country Parties, especially those that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of 
climate change.  
7. Parties shou ld strengthen their cooperation on enhancing action on adaptation, 
taking into account the Cancun Adaptation Framework, including with regard to:  
(a) Sharing information, good practices, experiences and lessons learned, 
including, as appropriate, as these rela te to science, planning, policies and implementation 
in relation to adaptation actions;  
(b) Strengthening institutional arrangements, including those under the 
Convention that serve this Agreement, to support the synthesis of relevant information and 
knowledge , and the provision of technical support and guidance to Parties;  
(c) Strengthening scientific knowledge on climate, including research, 
systematic observation of the climate system and early warning systems, in a manner that 
informs climate services and suppo rts decision -making;  
(d) Assisting developing country Parties in identifying effective adaptation 
practices, adaptation needs, priorities, support  provided and received for adaptation actions 
and efforts, and challenges and gaps, in a manner consistent with en couraging good 
practices; and  
(e) Improving the effectiveness  and durability of adaptation actions.  
8. United Nations specialized organizations and agencies are encouraged to support the 
efforts of Parties to implement the actions referred to in paragraph 7 of th is Article, taking 
into account the provisions of paragraph 5 of this Article.  
9. Each Party shall, as appropriate, engage in adaptation planning processes and the 
implementation of actions, including the development or enhancement of relevant plans, 
policies  and/or contributions, which may include:  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
 27 (a) The implementation  of adaptation actions, undertakings and/or efforts;  
(b) The process to formulate  and implement national adaptation plans;  
(c) The assessment of climate change impacts and vulnerability, with a view to 
formulating nationally determined prioritized  actions, taking into account vulnerable 
people, places and ecosystems;  
(d) Monitoring and evaluating and learning from adaptation plans , policies, 
programmes and actions; and  
(e) Building the resilience  of socioeconomic and ecological systems, including 
through economic diversification and sustainable management of natural resources.  
10. Each Party should, as appropriate, submit and update periodically an adaptation 
communication, which may include its prior ities, implementation and support needs, plans 
and actions, without creating any additional burden for developing country Parties.  
11. The adaptation communication referred to in paragraph 10 of this Article shall be, as 
appropriate, submitted and updated peri odically, as a component of or in conjunction with 
other communications or documents, including a national adaptation plan, a nationally 
determined contribution as referred to in Article 4, paragraph 2, and/or a national 
communication.  
12. The adaptation comm unications referred to in paragraph 10 of this Article shall be 
recorded in a public registry maintained by the secretariat.  
13. Continuous and enhanced international support shall be provided to developing 
country Parties for the implementation of  paragraphs 7, 9, 10 and 11 of this Article, in 
accordance with the provisions of Articles 9, 10 and 11.  
14. The global stocktake referred to in Article 14 shall, inter alia:  
(a) Recognize adaptation  efforts of developing country Parties;  
(b) Enhance the implementation  of adapt ation action taking into account the 
adaptation communication referred to in paragraph 10 of this Article;  
(c) Review the adequacy  and effectiveness of adaptation and support provided 
for adaptation; and  
(d) Review the overall  progress made in achieving the global  goal on adaptation 
referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article.  
Article 8  
1. Parties recognize the importance of averting, minimizing and addressing loss and 
damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change, including extreme weather 
events and s low onset events, and the role of sustainable development in reducing the risk 
of loss and damage.  
2. The Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated with Climate 
Change Impacts shall be subject to the authority and guidance of the Conferen ce of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement and may be enhanced and 
strengthened, as determined by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to this Agreement.  
3. Parties should enhance understanding, a ction and support, including through the 
Warsaw International Mechanism, as appropriate, on a cooperative and facilitative basis 
with respect to loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change.  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
28  4. Accordingly, areas of cooperation and fa cilitation to enhance understanding, action 
and support may include:  
(a) Early warning systems;  
(b) Emergency preparedness;  
(c) Slow onset events;  
(d) Events that may involve irreversible and permanent loss and damage;  
(e) Comprehensive risk assessment and management;  
(f) Risk insurance facilities, climate risk pooling and other insurance solutions;  
(g) Non-economic losses; and  
(h) Resilience of communities, livelihoods and ecosystems.  
5. The Warsaw International Mechanism shall collaborate with existing bodies and 
expert groups under the Agreement, as well as relevant organizations and expert bodies 
outside the Agreement.  
Article 9  
1. Developed  country Parties shall provide financial resources to assist developing 
country Parties with respect to both mitigation and adaptation in continuation of their 
existing obligations under the Convention.  
2. Other Parties are encouraged to provide or continue to provide such support 
voluntarily.  
3. As part of a global effort, developed country Parties should continue to take the lead 
in mobilizing climate finance from a wide variety of sources, instruments and channels, 
noting the significant role of public funds , through a variety of actions, including 
supporting country -driven strategies, and taking into account the needs and priorities of 
developing country Parties. Such mobilization of climate finance should represent a 
progression beyond previous efforts.  
4. The provision of scaled -up financial resources should aim to achieve a balance 
between adaptation and mitigation, taking into account country -driven strategies, and the 
priorities and needs of developing country Parties, especially those that are particularly  
vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change and have significant capacity 
constraints, such as the least developed countries and small island developing States, 
considering the need for public and grant -based resources for adaptation.  
5. Developed co untry Parties shall biennially communicate indicative quantitative and 
qualitative information related to paragraphs 1 and 3 of this Article, as applicable, 
including, as available, projected levels of public financial resources to be provided to 
developin g country Parties. Other Parties providing resources are encouraged to 
communicate biennially such information on a voluntary basis.  
6. The global stocktake referred to in Article 14 shall take into account the relevant 
information provided by developed count ry Parties and/or Agreement bodies on efforts 
related to climate finance.  
7. Developed country Parties shall provide transparent and consistent information on 
support for developing country Parties provided and mobilized through public interventions 
biennial ly in accordance with the modalities, procedures and guidelines to be adopted by 
the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement, at its FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
 29 first session, as stipulated in Article 13, paragraph 13. Other Parties are encou raged to do 
so. 
8. The Financial Mechanism of the Convention, including its operating entities, shall 
serve as the financial mechanism of this Agreement.  
9. The institutions serving this Agreement, including the operating entities of the 
Financial Mechanism of the Convention, shall aim to ensure efficient access to financial 
resources through simplified approval procedures and enhanced readiness support for 
developing country Parties, in particular for the least developed countries and small island 
developing St ates, in the context of their national climate strategies and plans.  
Article 10  
1. Parties share a long -term vision on the importance of fully realizing technology 
development and transfer in order to improve resilience to climate change and to reduce 
greenh ouse gas emissions.  
2. Parties, noting the importance of technology for the implementation of mitigation 
and adaptation actions under this Agreement and recognizing existing technology 
deployment and dissemination efforts, shall strengthen cooperative action on technology 
development and transfer.  
3. The Technology Mechanism established under the Convention shall serve this 
Agreement.  
4. A technology framework is hereby established to provide overarching guidance to 
the work of the Technology Mechanism in promoting and facilitating enhanced action on 
technology development and transfer in order to support the implementation of this 
Agreement, in pursuit of the long -term vision referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article.  
5. Accelerating, encouraging and enabling innovat ion is critical for an effective, long -
term global response to climate change and promoting economic growth and sustainable 
development. Such effort shall be, as appropriate, supported, including by the Technology 
Mechanism and, through financial means, by  the Financial Mechanism of the Convention, 
for collaborative approaches to research and development, and facilitating access to 
technology, in particular for early stages of the technology cycle, to developing country 
Parties.  
6. Support, including financia l support, shall be provided to developing country Parties 
for the implementation of this Article, including for strengthening cooperative action on 
technology development and transfer at different stages of the technology cycle, with a 
view to achieving a  balance between support for mitigation and adaptation. The global 
stocktake referred to in Article 14 shall take into account available information on efforts 
related to support on technology development and transfer for developing country Parties.  
Articl e 11  
1. Capacity -building under this Agreement should enhance the capacity and ability of 
developing country Parties, in particular countries with the least capacity, such as the least 
developed countries, and those that are particularly vulnerable to the ad verse effects of 
climate change, such as small island developing States, to take effective climate change 
action, including, inter alia, to implement adaptation and mitigation actions, and should 
facilitate technology development, dissemination and deploym ent, access to climate 
finance, relevant aspects of education, training and public awareness, and the transparent, 
timely and accurate communication of information.  
2. Capacity -building should be country -driven, based on and responsive to national 
needs, and  foster country ownership of Parties, in particular, for developing country Parties, FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
30  including at the national, subnational and local levels. Capacity -building should be guided 
by lessons learned, including those from capacity -building activities under the  Convention, 
and should be an effective, iterative process that is participatory, cross -cutting and gender -
responsive.  
3. All Parties should cooperate to enhance the capacity of developing country Parties to 
implement this Agreement. Developed country Partie s should enhance support for capacity -
building actions in developing country Parties.  
4. All Parties enhancing the capacity of developing country Parties to implement this 
Agreement, including through regional, bilateral and multilateral approaches, shall 
regularly communicate on these actions or measures on capacity -building. Developing 
country Parties should regularly communicate progress made on implementing capacity -
building plans, policies, actions or measures to implement this Agreement.   
5. Capacity -building activities shall be enhanced through appropriate institutional 
arrangements to support the implementation of this Agreement, including the appropriate 
institutional arrangements established under the Convention that serve this Agreement . The 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement shall, at 
its first session , consider and adopt a decision on the initial institutional arrangements for 
capacity -building.  
Article 12  
Parties shall cooperate in taking measures, as appropriate, to enhance climate change 
education, training, public awareness, public participation and public access to information, 
recognizing the importance of these steps with respect to enhancing actions under this 
Agreement.  
Article 13  
1. In order to build mutual trust and confidence and to promote effective 
implementation, an enhanced transparency framework for action and support, with built -in 
flexibility which takes into account Parties’ different capacities and builds upon collective 
experience is hereby established.  
2. The transparency framework  shall provide flexibility in the implementation of the 
provisions of this Article to those developing country Parties that need it in the light of their 
capacities. The modalities, procedures and gu idelines referred to in paragraph 13 of this 
Article shall reflect such flexibility.   
3. The transparency framework shall build on and enhance the transparency 
arrangements under the Convention, recognizing the special circumstances of the least 
developed cou ntries and small island developing States, and be implemented in a 
facilitative, non -intrusive, non -punitive manner, respectful of national sovereignty, and 
avoid placing undue burden on Parties.    
4. The transparency arrangements under the Convention, includ ing national 
communications, biennial reports and biennial update reports, international assessment and 
review and international consultation and analysis, shall form part of the experience drawn 
upon for the development of the modalities, procedures and g uidelines under paragraph 13 
of this Article.  
5. The purpose of the framework for transparency of action is to provide a clear 
understanding of climate change action in the light of the objective of the Convention as set 
out in its Article 2, including clarit y and tracking of progress towards achieving Parties’ 
individual nationally determined contributions under Article 4, and Parties’ adaptation FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
 31 actions under Article 7, including good practices, priorities, needs and gaps, to inform the 
global stocktake unde r Article 14.   
6. The purpose of the framework for transparency of support is to provide clarity on 
support provided and received by relevant individual  Parties in the context of climate 
change actions under Articles 4, 7, 9, 10 and 11, and, to the extent pos sible, to provide a 
full overview of aggregate financial support provided, to inform the global stocktake under 
Article 14.  
7. Each Party shall regularly  provide the following information:  
(a) A national inventory report of anthropogenic emissions by sources and 
removals by sinks of greenhouse gases, prepared  using good practice methodologies 
accepted by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and agreed upon by the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement; and  
(b) Information necessary  to track progress made in implementing and achieving 
its nationally determined contribution under Article 4.  
8. Each Party should also provide information related to climate change impacts and 
adaptation under Article 7, as appropriate.  
9. Developed country Parties shall, and other Parties that provide support should, 
provide information on financial, technology transfer and capacity -building support 
provided to developing country Parties under Articles 9, 10 and 11.  
10. Developing country Parti es should provide information on financial, technology 
transfer and capacity -building support needed and received under Articles 9, 10 and 11.  
11. Information submitted by each Party under paragraphs 7 and 9 of this Article shall 
undergo a technical expert rev iew, in accordance with decision 1/CP.21. For those 
developing country Parties that need it in the light of their capacities, the review process 
shall include assistance in identifying capacity -building needs. In addition, each Party shall 
participate in a  facilitative, multilateral consideration of progress with respect to efforts 
under Article 9, and its respective implementation and achievement of its nationally 
determined contribution.  
12. The technical expert review under this paragraph shall consist of a  consideration of 
the Party’s support provided, as relevant, and its implementation and achievement of its 
nationally determined contribution . The review shall also identify areas of improvement for 
the Party, and include a review of the consistency of the  information with the modalities, 
procedures and guidelines referred to in paragraph 13 of this Article, taking into account 
the flexibility accorded to the Party under paragraph 2 of this Article. The review shall pay 
particular attention to the respectiv e national capabilities and circumstances of developing 
country Parties.  
13. The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this 
Agreement shall, at its first session, building on experience from the arrangements related 
to transparency  under the Convention, and elaborating on the provisions in this Article, 
adopt common modalities, procedures and guidelines, as appropriate, for the transparency 
of action and support.  
14. Support shall be provided to developing countr ies for the implementati on of this 
Article.  
15. Support shall also be provided for the building of transparency -related capacity of 
developing country Parties on a continuous basis.  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
32  Article 14  
1. The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this 
Agreement shal l periodically take stock of the implementation of this Agreement to assess 
the collective progress towards achieving the purpose of this Agreement and its long -term 
goals (referred to as the “global stocktake”). It shall do so in a comprehensive and 
facilitative manner, considering mitigation, adaptation and the means of implementation 
and support, and in the light of equity and the best available science.  
2. The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this 
Agreement shall undertak e its first global stocktake in 2023 and every five years thereafter 
unless otherwise decided by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to this Agreement.  
3. The outcome of the global stocktake shall  inform Parties in updating and  enhancing, 
in a nationally determined manner, their actions and support in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, as well as in enhancing international cooperation for climate 
action.  
Article 15  
1. A mechanism to facilitate implementation of and promote compliance with the 
provisions of this Agreement is hereby established . 
2. The mechanism referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall consist of a 
committee that shall be expert -based and facilitativ e in nature and function in a manner that 
is transparent, non -adversarial and non -punitive. The committee shall pay particular 
attention to the respective national capabilities and circumstances of Parties.  
3. The committee shall operate under the modalities and procedures adopted by the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement at its first 
session and report annually to the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to this Agreement.  
Article 16  
1. The Conference of the Parties, the supreme body of the Convention, shall serve as 
the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement.  
2. Parties to the Convention that are not Parties to this Agreement may participate as 
observers in the proceedings of any session o f the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to this Agreement. When the Conference of the Parties serves as the 
meeting of the Parties to this Agreement, decisions under this Agreement shall be taken 
only by those that are Parties  to this Agreement.  
3. When the Conference of the Parties serves as the meeting of the Parties to this 
Agreement, any member of the Bureau of the Conference of the Parties representing a Party 
to the Convention but, at that time, not a Party to this Agreement , shall be replaced by an 
additional member to be elected by and from amongst the Parties to this Agreement.  
4. The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this 
Agreement shall keep under regular review the implementation of this Ag reement and shall 
make , within its mandate, the decisions necessary to promote its effective implementation. 
It shall perform the functions assigned to it by this Agreement and shall:  
(a) Establish such subsidiary bodies as deemed necessary for the implementat ion 
of this Agreement; and  
(b) Exercise  such other functions as may be required for the implementation of 
this Agreement.  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
 33 5. The rules of procedure of the Conference of the Parties and the financial procedures 
applied under the Convention shall be applied mutatis  mutandis  under this Agreement, 
except as may be otherwise decided by consensus by the Conference of the Parties serving 
as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement.  
6. The first session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parti es to this Agreement shall be convened by the secretariat in conjunction with the first 
session of the Conference of the Parties that is scheduled after the date of entry into force of 
this Agreement. Subsequent ordinary sessions of the Conference of the P arties serving as 
the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement shall be held in conjunction with ordinary 
sessions of the Conference of the Parties, unless otherwise decided by the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agr eement.  
7. Extraordinary sessions of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to this Agreement shall be held at such other times as may be deemed necessary by 
the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to t his Agreement or at 
the written request of any Party, provided that, within six months of the request being 
communicated to the Parties by the secretariat, it is supported by at least one third of the 
Parties.  
8. The United Nations and its specialized agencie s and the International Atomic 
Energy Agency, as well as any State member thereof or observers thereto not party to the 
Convention, may be represented at sessions of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to this Agreement as o bservers. Any body or agency, whether 
national or international, governmental or non -governmental, which is qualified in matters 
covered by this Agreement and which has informed the secretariat of its wish to be 
represented at a session of the Conference o f the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to this Agreement as an observer, may be so admitted unless at least one third of the 
Parties present object. The admission and participation of observers shall be subject to the 
rules of procedure referr ed to in paragraph 5 of this Article.  
Article 17  
1. The secretariat established by Article 8 of the Convention shall serve as the 
secretariat of this Agreement.  
2. Article 8, paragraph 2, of the Convention on the functions of the secretariat, and 
Article 8, par agraph 3, of the Convention, on the arrangements made for the functioning of 
the secretariat, shall apply mutatis mutandis  to this Agreement. The secretariat shall, in 
addition, exercise the functions assigned to it under this Agreement and by the Conferen ce 
of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this Agreement.  
Article 18  
1. The Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice and the Subsidiary 
Body for Implementation established by Articles 9 and 10 of the Convention shall serve, 
respectively, as the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice and the 
Subsidiary Body for Implementation of this Agreement. The provisions of the Convention 
relating to the functioning of these two bodies shall apply mutatis mutandis  to this 
Agreement. Sessions of the meetings of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and 
Technological Advice and the Subsidiary Body for Implementation of this Agreement shall 
be held in conjunction with the meetings of, respectively, the  Subsidiary Body for 
Scientif ic and Technological Advice and the Subsidiary Body for Implementation of the 
Convention.  
2. Parties to the Convention that are not Parties to this Agreement may participate as 
observers in the proceedings of any session of the subsidiary bodies. When the sub sidiary FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
34  bodies serve as the subsidiary bodies of this Agreement, decisions under this Agreement 
shall be taken only by those that are Parties to this Agreement.  
3. When the subsidiary bodies established by Articles 9 and 10 of the Convention 
exercise their fu nctions with regard to matters concerning this Agreement, any member of 
the bureaux of those subsidiary bodies representing a Party to the Convention but, at that 
time, not a Party to this Agreement, shall be replaced by an additional member to be elected 
by and from amongst the Parties to this Agreement.  
Article 19  
1. Subsidiary bodies or other institutional arrangements established by or under the 
Convention, other than those referred to in this Agreement, shall serve this Agreement upon 
a decision of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this 
Agreement. The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to this 
Agreement shall specify the functions to be exercised by such subsidiary  bodies or 
arrangements.  
2. The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Part ies to this 
Agreement may provide further guidance to such subsidiary bodies and institutional 
arrangements.  
Article 20  
1. This Agreement shall be open for signature and subject to ratification, acceptance or 
approval by States and regional economic integra tion organizations that are Parties to the 
Convention. It shall be open for signature at the United Nations Headquarters in New York 
from 22 April 2016 to 21 April 2017. Thereafter, this Agreement shall be open for 
accession from the day following the date  on which it is closed for signature. Instruments of 
ratification, acceptance, approval or accession shall be deposited with the Depositary.  
2. Any regional economic integration organization that becomes a Party to this 
Agreement without any of its member Sta tes being a Party shall be bound by all the 
obligations under this Agreement. In the case of regional economic integration 
organizations with one or more member States that are Parties to this Agreement, the 
organization and its member States shall decide on their respective responsibilities for the 
performance of their obligations under this Agreement. In such cases, the organization and 
the member States shall not be entitled to exercise rights under this Agreement 
concurrently.  
3. In their instruments of ra tification, acceptance, approval or accession, regional 
economic integration organizations shall declare the extent of their competence with 
respect to the matters governed by this Agreement. These organizations shall also inform 
the Depositary, who shall in turn inform the Parties, of any substantial modification in the 
extent of their competence.  
Article 21  
1. This Agreement shall enter into force on the thirtieth day after the date on which at 
least 55 Parties to the Convention accounting in total for at l east an estimated 55 per cent of 
the total global greenhouse gas emissions have deposited their instruments of ratification, 
acceptance, approval or accession.   
2. Solely for the limited purpose of paragraph 1 of this Article, “total global 
greenhouse gas emi ssions” means the most up -to-date amount communicated on or before 
the date of adoption of this Agreement by the Parties to the Convention.  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
 35 3. For each State or regional economic integration organization that ratifies, accepts or 
approves this Agreement or a ccedes thereto after the conditions set out in paragraph 1 of 
this Article for entry into force have been fulfilled, this Agreement shall enter into force on 
the thirtieth day after the date of deposit by such State or regional economic integration 
organiz ation of its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession.  
4. For the purposes of paragraph 1 of this Article, any instrument deposited by a 
regional economic integration organization shall not be counted as additional to those 
deposited by i ts member States.  
Article 22  
The provisions of Article 15 of the Convention on the adoption of amendments to 
the Convention shall apply mutatis mutandis  to this Agreement.  
Article 23  
1. The provisions of Article 16 of the Convention on the adoption and amen dment of 
annexes to the Convention shall apply mutatis mutandis  to this Agreement.  
2. Annexes to this Agreement shall form an integral part thereof and, unless otherwise 
expressly provided for, a reference to this Agreement constitutes at the same time a 
reference to any annexes thereto. Such annexes shall be restricted to lists, forms and any 
other material of a descriptive nature that is of a scientific, technical, procedural or 
administrative character.  
Article 24  
The provisions of Article 14 of the Conve ntion on settlement of disputes shall apply 
mutatis mutandis  to this Agreement.  
Article 25  
1. Each Party shall have one vote, except as provided for in paragraph 2 of this Article.  
2. Regional economic integration organizations, in matters within their competen ce, 
shall exercise their right to vote with a number of votes equal to the number of their 
member States that are Parties to this Agreement. Such an organization shall not exercise 
its right to vote if any of its member States exercises its right, and vice  versa.  
Article 26  
The Secretary -General of the United Nations shall be the Depositary of this 
Agreement.  
Article 27  
No reservations may be made to this Agreement.  
Article 28  
1. At any time after three years from the date on which this Agreement has entered into 
force for a Party, that Party may withdraw from this Agreement by giving written 
notification to the Depositary.  
2. Any such withdrawal shall take effect upon expiry of one y ear from the date of 
receipt by the Depositary of the notification of withdrawal, or on such later date as may be 
specified in the notification of withdrawal.  
3. Any Party that withdraws from the Convention shall be considered as also having 
withdrawn from th is Agreement.  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.1  
36  Article 29  
The original of this Agreement, of which the Arabic, Chinese, English, French, 
Russian and Spanish texts are equally authentic, shall be deposited with the Secretary -
General of the United Nations.  
 
DONE at Paris this twelfth day o f December two thousand and fifteen.  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized to that effect, have 
signed this Agreement.  
     
GE.16 -01195(E)  
*1601195*   
 
Conference of the Parties  
  Report of the Conference of the Parties on its twenty -first 
session, held in Paris from 30 November to 13 December 2015  
 Addendum  
  Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties at its 
twenty -first session  
Contents  
  Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties  
Decision   Page 
  2/CP.2 1 Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage  associated  
with Climate Change Impacts  ................................ ................................ ....................   2 
  3/CP.2 1 Report of the Adaptation Committee  ................................ ................................ .........   3 
  4/CP.2 1 National adaptation plans ................................ ................................ ..........................   4 
  5/CP.2 1 Long -term climate finance  ................................ ................................ .........................   7 
  6/CP.2 1 Report of the Standing Committee  on Finance  ................................ ..........................   8 
  7/CP.2 1 Report of the Green Climate Fund to the Conference of the Parties and  
guidance to the Green Climate Fund  ................................ ................................ .........   10 
  8/CP.2 1 Report of the Global Environment Facility to the Conference of the Parties and  
guidance to the Global Environment Facility  ................................ ............................   13 
  9/CP.2 1 Methodologies for the reporting of financial information by Parties included  
in Annex I to the Convention  ................................ ................................ .....................   15 
  10/CP.2 1 The 2013 –2015 review  ................................ ................................ ..............................   23 
  11/CP.21  Forum and work programme on the impact of the implementation of   
response measures  ................................ ................................ ................................ .....  25 
  12/CP.2 1  Enhancing climate technology development and transfer through the  
Technology Mechanism  ................................ ................................ .............................   27 
  13/CP.21  Linkages between the Technology Mechanism and the Financial Mechanism  of the 
Convention  ................................ ................................ ................................ .................   28  United Nations  FCCC /CP/2015/10/Add.2  
 
 
  
Distr.: General  
29 January 2016  
 
Original: English  
FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.2  
2  Decision 2/CP.21  
  Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage 
associated with Climate Change Impacts  
The Conference of the Parties ,  
1. Welcomes with appreciation the work by the Executive Committee of the Warsaw 
International Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts 
(hereinafter referred to as the Executive Committee) as an important step in the 
operationalizat ion of this mechanism;  
2. Welcomes  the report of the Executive Committee;1 
3. Decides that, as a consequence of the late nomination of members to the Executive 
Committee in 2015, the term of the members currently in office will end immediately 
before the first m eeting of the Executive Committee in 2018 for members with a term of 
two years, and immediately before the first meeting of the Executive Committee in 2019 
for members with a term of three years;  
4. Also decides  that, as a consequence of the adjustment to the  terms of office of the 
members of the Executive Committee as referred to in paragraph 3 above, the terms of the 
Co-Chairs who are currently in office will end immediately before the first meeting of the 
Executive Committee in 2017;  
5. Notes  with concern  the limited progress made in the implementation of the initial 
two-year workplan of the Executive Committee2 owing to the late nomination of members 
as referred to in paragraph 3 above;  
6. Acknowledges with appreciation that the Executive Committee plans to sched ule at 
least three meetings3 during 2016;  
7. Urges the Executive Committee to explore modalities of work in order to fulfil its 
mandate in accordance with decisions 2/CP.19 and 2/CP.20 ; 
8. Also urges Parties to make available sufficient resources for the successful and 
timely implementation of the initial two -year workplan of the Executive Committee in view 
of the ambitious nature of that workplan.  
10th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015  
 
                                                           
 1 FCCC/SB/2015/3.  
 2 As contained in document FCCC/SB/2014/4 , annex  II. 
 3 The 2nd meeting of the Executive Committee is scheduled to take place on 2 –5 February 2016.  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.2  
 3 Decision 3 /CP.21  
  Report of the Adaptation Committee  
The Conference of the Parties , 
1. Welcomes the report of the Adaptation Committee, including its recommendations;1  
2. Also welcomes the workplan of the Adaptation Committee for the period 2016 –2018 
contained in the report referred to in paragraph 1 above;  
3. Notes with appreciation the progress made by the Adaptation Committee in the 
implementation of its first three -year workplan;2  
4. Invites the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change to enhance outreach 
activities that would facilitate policymakers’ understanding of the impact of different levels 
of warming on adaptation planning and actions;  
5. Requests the Technology Executive Committee, in collaboration with the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network, the Adaptation Committee and the Least Developed 
Countries Expert Group, to consider how it can help Parties align their technology needs 
assessments with th e process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans;  
6. Invites Parties to take into account climate risk screening of national development 
strategies and policies aimed at enhancing livelihoods and economic diversification to 
enhance climate resil ience;  
7. Requests the Adaptation Committee to further strengthen cooperation with the 
Standing Committee on Finance and other constituted bodies under the Convention, with a 
view to enhancing coherence and collaboration regarding adaptation finance as contai ned in 
the workplan of the Adaptation Committee referred to in paragraph 2 above;  
8. Recalls decision 4/CP.20 , which encourages Parties to nominate experts to the 
Adaptation Committee with a diversity of experience and knowledge relevant to adaptation 
to clim ate change, while also taking into account the need to achieve gender balance in 
accordance with decision 36/CP.7;  
9. Notes the considerable time requirement that membership of the Adaptation 
Committee entails;  
10. Reiterates its encouragement made to Parties in  decision 11/CP.18, paragraph 6, to 
make available sufficient resources for the successful and timely implementation of the 
work of the Adaptation Committee;  
11. Takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secre tariat pursuant to the provisions contained in paragraph 2 above;  
12. Requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
10th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015  
                                                           
 1 FCCC/SB/2015/2.  
 2 As contained in document FCCC/SB/2012/3 , annex II . FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.2  
4  Decision 4/CP.21  
  National adaptation plans 
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  decisions 1/CP.16, 3/CP.17, 5/CP.17, 12/CP.18, 18/CP.19 and 3/CP.20,  
Acknowledging  that the process to formulate and implement national adaptation 
plans is still in its early stages,  
Noting with appreciation  the pledges made by contributing Parties to the Green 
Climate Fund,1 
Noting with concern the lack of funding in the Least Develope d Countries Fund and 
the Special Climate Change Fund for the process to formulate and implement national 
adaptation plans,  
Noting with appreciation  the contributions made by developed country Parties to the 
Least Developed Countries Fund and the Special Cl imate Change Fund,  
Emphasizing the need to align technical support provided to developing countr y 
Parties for the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans with the 
principles, terminology and guidelines for the process to formulate and implement national 
adaptation plans contained in decision 5/CP.17 and subsequent related decisions,  
Welcoming relevant publications of the Adaptation Committee and the Least 
Developed Countries Expert Group pertaining to the process to formulate and implement 
national adaptation plans disseminated at this session,  
Noting  decision B.11/04 of the Board of the Green Climate Fund on the readiness 
programme implementation (progress report),2 whereby it reaffirms that it may support a 
voluntary country -driven national adaptation planning process through its readiness and 
preparatory support programme, in coordination with other programmes and channels,  
1. Notes with appreciation  the progress made by developing country Parties in the 
process to formulate and imp lement national adaptation plans;3 
2. Welcomes the submission by Burkina Faso and Cameroon of their national 
adaptation plans through NAP Central ,4 and encourages  other Parties to forward relevant 
outputs and outcomes related to the process to formulate  and implement national adaptation 
plans to NAP Central as they are invited to do in decision 3/CP.20, paragraph 9;  
3. Notes  that gaps and needs remain in relation  to the process to formulate and 
implement national adaptation plans , including in terms of acce ss to financial support, data 
and reporting;  
4. Acknowledges  that it is too early to assess how the process to formulate and 
implement national adaptation plans has contributed  towards reducing vulnerability to 
climate change and that the measures undertaken by countries to date constitute incremental 
                                                           
 1 See <http://www.greenclimate.fund/contributions/pledge -tracker>.  
 2 Green Climate Fund Board document GCF/B.11/06. Available at <http://www.greenclimate.fund/ -/b-
11>. 
 3 See documents FCCC/SBI/2015/19 and Corr.1 and FCCC/SBI/2015/INF.11.  
 4 <http://unfccc.int/nap>.  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.2  
 5 steps towards achieving the objectives of the process to formulate and implement national 
adaptation plans;  
5. Notes  the progress made by some Parties in integrating climate change adaptation 
into relevant new and e xisting policies, programmes and activities, in particular 
development planning processes and strategies within relevant sectors and at different 
levels of decision -making;  
6. Invites the Green Climate Fund, as an operating entity of the Financial Mechanism, 
in accordance with paragraphs 36 and 40 of its governing instrument,5 to consider how to 
improve access to financial support for the process to formulate and implement national 
adaptation plans;  
7. Also invites  developed country Parties to contribute to the L east Developed 
Countries Fund and the Special Climate Change Fund;  
8. Encourages  United Nations organizations, specialized, bilateral and multilateral 
agencies and other relevant organizations to continue their efforts to coordinate support for 
the process to  formulate and implement national adaptation plans;  
9. Invites  United Nations organizations, specialized, bilateral and multilateral agencies 
and other relevant organizations to consider the gaps and needs, identified in the reports 
prepared on this matter,6 related to the provision of financial and technical support to 
developing country Parties for the process to formulate and implement national adaptation 
plans;  
10. Requests the Least Developed Countries Expert Group and the Adaptation 
Committee to consider how  they can provide more information on accessing funding from 
the Green Climate Fund for the process to formulate and implement national adaptation 
plans and to include such information, as appropriate, in their reports;  
11. Also requests the Subsidiary Body fo r Implementation to assess progress made in 
the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans at its forty -eighth session 
(April –May 2018), with a view to making recommendations thereon to the Conference of 
the Parties, as appropriate;  
12. Decid es on the following actions and steps necessary for the Subsidiary Body for 
Implementation to initiate the assessment referred to in paragraph 11 above:  
(a) To invite Parties and relevant organizations to submit to the secretariat, by 1 
February 2018, informat ion on their progress made towards the achievement of the 
objectives of the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans, 
experiences, best practices, lessons learned, gaps and needs, and support provided and 
received in the process to form ulate and implement national adaptation plans;  
(b) To invite Parties to provide information, guided by a questionnaire,7 on an 
ongoing basis through NAP Central;  
(c) To request the secretariat to prepare a synthesis report on the progress made 
towards the achievem ent of the objectives of the process to formulate and implement 
national adaptation plans, experiences, best practices, lessons learned, gaps and needs, and 
support provided and received in the process to formulate and implement national 
adaptation plans, taking into account information contained in national reports under the 
Convention, the information referred to in paragraph s 12(a) and (b) above, information 
                                                           
 5 Decision 3/CP.17, annex.  
 6 FCCC/SBI/2015/INF.6,  FCCC/SBI/2015/INF.11 and FCCC/SBI/2015/INF.14.  
 7 Based on the questions contained in document FCCC/SBI/2015/10 , annex II . FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.2  
6  from relevant events, including the NAP Expos, and information from other relevant 
sources;  
(d) To request the Least Developed Countries Expert Group, in collaboration 
with the Adaptation Committee, to organize a meeting of Party experts, at which the report 
referred to in paragraph 12(c) above would be considered, with a view to providing a 
summary of progress made in the process to formulate and implement national adaptation 
plans;  
(e) To request the Least Developed Countries Expert Group, in collaboration 
with the Adaptation Committee and with the support of the secretariat, to prepare a report 
on the mee ting referred to in paragraph 12(d) above, for consideration by the Subsidiary 
Body for Implementation at its forty -eighth session in its assessment of progress made in 
the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans;  
13. Also decides  that the  assessment referred to in paragraph 11 above should take into 
account all the guiding principles of the process to formulate and implement national 
adaptation plans contained in decision 5/CP.17, paragraph 3;  
14. Takes note of the estimated budgetary implicat ions of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat pursuant to the provisions contained in paragraph 12 above ; 
15. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources . 
10th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.2  
 7 Decision 5/CP.21  
  Long -term climate finance  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  Articles 4 and 11 of the Convention,   
Also recalling  decision 1/CP.16, paragraphs 2, 4 and 97 –101, as well as decisions 
1/CP.17, 2/CP.17, paragraphs 126 –132, 4/CP.18, 3/CP.19 and 5/CP.20,  
1. Welcomes with appreciation the pledges and announcements and progr ess made 
towards reaching the goal of jointly mobilizing USD  100 billion annually by 2020 by 
developed country Parties, in accordance with decision 1/CP.16, including financial 
contributions made to the Green Climate Fund, the Least Developed Countries Fun d and 
the Adaptation Fund, providing further clarity to and predictability of public climate 
finance flows from 2015 to 2020;1 
2. Urges  developed country Parties to continue efforts to channel a substantial share of 
public climate funds to adaptation activiti es and to strive to achieve a greater balance 
between finance for mitigation and adaptation, recognizing the importance of adaptation 
finance;  
3. Takes note with appreciation of the summary report on the in -session workshop on 
long-term climate finance held in 2015;2 
4. Decides  that the second biennial high -level ministerial dialogue on climate finance, 
to be convened in accordance with decision 3/CP.19, will focus on the issues of adaptation 
finance, needs for support to developing country Parties , and cooperation on enhanced 
enabling environments and support for readiness activities, and that it will be informed by 
the report of the in -session workshop on long -term climate finance in 2016 and the second 
biennial assessment and overview of climate f inance flows;  
5. Requests  the Presidency of the Conference of the Parties, with the support of the 
secretariat, to prepare a summary of the second biennial high -level ministerial dialogue on 
climate finance for consideration by the Conference of the Parties a t its twenty -third session 
(November 2017).  
10th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015  
                                                           
 1 See <http://unfccc.int/cooperation_support/financial_mechanism/long -
term_finance/items/9359.php?priref=600008649>.   
 2 FCCC/CP/201 5/2.  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.2  
8  Decision 6/CP.21  
  Report of the Standing Committee on Finance  
 The Conference of the Parties , 
 Recalling  Articles 4 and 11 of the Convention,  
 Also recalling  decisions 1/CP.16, paragraph 112, and 2/CP.17, paragraphs 120 and 
121, as well as decisions 5/CP.18, 7/CP.19 and 6/CP.20,  
1. Welcomes with appreciation  the report of the Standing Committee on Finance to the 
Conference of the Parties at its twenty -first session, taking note of the recommendations 
contained therein;1 
2. Requests the Standing Committee on Finance to continue to strengthen its 
engagement with a ll relevant stakeholders and bodies under the Convention;  
3. Endorses the workplan of the Standing Committee on Finance for 2016 –2017;2 
4. Requests the Standing Committee on Finance, in implementing its workplan  on the 
measurement, reporting and verification of support beyond the biennial assessment and 
overview of climate finance flows, to continue to engage with relevant bodies under the 
Convention, multilateral and bilateral agencies , and international institu tions;  
5. Welcomes  the third forum of the Standing Committee on Finance , on enhancing the 
coherence and coordination of forest financing, held on 8 and 9 September 2015 in Durban, 
South Africa;  
6. Notes the recommendations of the Standing Committee on Finance from its third 
forum;3  
7. Expresses  its gratitude to the Government of South Africa and the Food and 
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations for their support in ensuring the success of 
the third forum  of the Standing Committee on Fi nance ;  
8. Requests  the Standing Committee on Finance to report to the Conference of the 
Parties at its twenty -second session (November 2016) on the progress made in the 
implementation of its workplan;  
9. Decides  to initiate the review of the functions of the Standing Committee on Finance 
referred to in decision 6/CP.20, paragraph 23, at the twenty -second session of the 
Conference of the Parties;  
10. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation, at its forty -fifth session 
(November 2016), to prepare draft terms of reference for the r eview referred to in 
paragraph 9 above, on the basis of the submissions referred to in paragraph 11 below, for 
consideration by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -second session;  
11. Also requests the members of the Standing Committee on Finance and  invites  Parties 
and observer organizations to submit their views on the terms of reference for the review of 
                                                           
 1 FCCC/CP/2015/8.  
 2  As contained in document FCCC/CP/2015/ 8, annex X.  
 3 As contained in document FCCC/CP/2015/8, annex II.  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.2  
 9 the functions of the Standing Committee on Finance by 21 September 2016,4 for 
compilation by the secretariat into a miscellaneous document;  
12. Further requests  the Standing Committee on Finance to consider the guidance 
provided to it in other relevant decisions of the Conference of the Parties.  
10th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015  
                                                           
 4 Parties should submit their views via the submissions portal at  <http://www.unfccc.int/5900> . 
Observer organizations should e -mail their submissions to <secretariat@unfccc.int>.  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.2  
10  Decision 7/CP.21  
  Report of the Green Climate Fund to the Conference of the 
Parties and guidance to the Green Climate Fund  
 The Conference of the Parties , 
 Recalling  decision 7/CP.20,  
 Noting  the recommendations of the Standing Committee on Finance contained in its 
report to the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -first session with regard to the 
provision of draft guidance to the Green Climate Fund,1 
1. Welcomes  the report of the Green Clima te Fund to the Conference of the Parties  at 
its twenty -first session2 and the information contained therein on the progress made by the 
Green Climate Fund towards its full operationalization;  
2. Notes with appreciation  the attainment of the effectiveness of the Green Climate 
Fund by achieving the 50 per cent threshold required for the Green Climate Fund to 
allocate its resources to projects and programmes;  
3. Also notes  with appreciation  that the Board of the Green Climate Fund reached its 
aim of taking its firs t funding decisions by its third meeting of 2015, committing USD 168 
million to eight public and private projects that will promote, in the context of sustainable 
development, the paradigm shift towards low -emission and climate -resilient development 
pathwa ys, thereby making the Green Climate Fund fully operational;  
4. Welcomes with appreciation  pledges made to the Green Climate Fund since the 
twentieth session of the Conference of Parties;3 
5. Welcomes  the aspirations of the Board of the Green Climate Fund to approve 
proposals in 2016 to a value of USD 2.5 billion ; 
6. Also welcomes  the establishment of a project preparation facility that will be 
targeted to small -scale activities and direct access entities, and requests the Board of the 
Green Climate Fund to consi der lessons learned from other relevant facilities;  
7. Further welcomes  the allocation of up to USD 900 million for three pilot 
programmes on: enhancing direct access for recipient countries to the Green Climate Fund; 
supporting micro, small and medium -sized enterprises; and mobilizing resources at scale in 
order to address adaptation and mitigation;4 
8. Urges Parties that made pledges under the initial resource mobilization process of 
the Green Climate Fund but have not yet confirmed them to the Green Climate Fu nd 
through fully executed contribution arrangements or agreements to do so as  a matter of high 
priority ; 
9. Reiterates  the invitation for financial inputs from a variety of sources, public and 
private, including alternative sources, throughout the initial res ource mobilization process;  
                                                           
 1 FCCC/CP/2015/8, annex IV .  
 2 FCCC/CP/2015/3.   
 3 Pledges have been made by Bulgaria, Cyprus, Estonia, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Lithuania, 
Luxembourg, Malta, Norway,  Portugal, Viet Nam, Brussels -Capital Region, Flemish Region, 
Walloon Region and the city of Paris.  
 4 FCCC/CP/2015/3.  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.2  
 11 10. Requests  the Board of the Green Climate Fund to agree on the arrangements for the 
first formal replenishment process of the Green Climate Fund as soon as feasible;  
11. Welcomes the decision of the Board of the Green Climate Fund to develop a 
strategic plan for the Green Climate Fund and to adopt it as soon as possible;  
12. Also welcomes  the decision of the Board of the Green Climate Fund to simplify the 
funding proposal template and concept note template in an expeditious manner;  
13. Request s the Board of the Green Climate Fund to ensure that the revised funding 
proposal template and concept note template are designed to facilitate the application 
process;  
14. Also requests  the Board of the Green Climate Fund to adopt a simplified process for 
approval of proposals for certain activities, in particular for small -scale activities, as soon as 
possible in 2016, to reduce complexities and costs involved in project proposal 
development;  
15. Welcomes  the decisions of the Board of the Green Climate Fund to ap prove the 
accreditation of 20 national, regional, international and private entities to the Green Climate 
Fund;5 
16. Urges the Board of the Green Climate Fund to streamline the accreditation 
modalities and to seek a balance of diversity in accredited entities;  
17.  Takes note of the progress achieved to date in the implementation of the readiness 
and preparatory support programme of the Green Climate Fund and stresses the importance 
of improving the approval process and timely disbursement of readiness resources to  
facilitate readiness programme implementation pursuant to Green Climate Fund Board 
decision B.11/ 04; 
18. Requests  the Board of the Green Climate Fund to prioritize the development of its 
initial risk management framework ; 
19. Also requests  the Board of the Green Climate Fund to enhance transparency and 
stakeholder engagement;  
20. Urges  the Board of the Green Climate Fund to operationalize the Independent 
Evaluation Unit, Independent Redress Mechanism and Independent Integrity Unit as a 
matter o f urgency and to make public the procedures Parties and affected individuals should 
follow when seeking redress until the Independent Redress Mechanism is operationalized;  
21. Invites the Board of the Green Climate Fund to take into account in its programmati c 
priorities the Cancun Adaptation Framework, in particular the principles referred to in 
decision 1/CP.16, paragraph 12 , and the activities referred to in decision 1/CP.16, 
paragraph 14;  
22. Also invites the Board of the Green Climate Fund, in line with paragraph 38 of the 
governing instrument of the Green Climate Fund,6 to consider ways to provide support, 
pursuant to the modalities of the Green Climate Fund, for facilitating access to 
environmentally sound technologies in developing countr y Parties , and  for undertaking 
collaborative research and development for enabling developing countr y Parties to enhance 
their mitigation and adaptation action;  
23. Urges  the Board of the Green Climate Fund to operationalize results -based 
payments for activities referred to  in decision 1/CP.16, paragraph 70, consistent with 
decision 9/CP.19, and in accordance with Green Climate Fund Board decision B.08/08;  
                                                           
 5 Five national, three regional, nine international and three private entities.  
 6 Decision 3/ CP.17, annex . FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.2  
12  24. Encourages  the Board of the Green Climate Fund to consider the mobilization of 
private sector finance to progress the Green Climate Fund’s forestry -related result areas;  
25. Requests  the Board of the Green Climate Fund to take into account decision 
16/CP.21, in particular paragraph 6, referring to support  for alternative policy approaches, 
such as joint mitigation and adaptation approaches for the integral and sustainable 
management of forests , as appropriate , in its funding decisions ; 
26. Encourages  the Board of the Green Climate Fund to improve complementari ty and 
coherence with other institutions, per paragraphs 33 and 34 of the governing instrument  of 
the Green Climate Fund ,7 including by engaging with relevant bodies of the Convention, 
such as  the Standing Committee on Finance;  
27.  Urges  the Board of the Gree n Climate Fund  to develop appropriate mechanisms to 
support the fund through appropriate expert and technical advice, including from thematic 
bodies, as appropriate;  
28. Requests the Board of the Green Climate Fund to report to the Conference of Parties 
on the  steps it has taken to implement the guidance provided in this decision and other 
relevant decisions of the Conference of the Parties;  
29. Invites  Parties to submit to the secretariat annually, in writing and no later than 10 
weeks prior to each session of th e Conference of the Parties, their views and 
recommendations on the elements to be taken into account in developing guidance to the 
Green Climate Fund.  
11th plenary meeting  
13 December 2015  
                                                           
 7 Decision 3/CP.17, annex.  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.2  
 13 Decision 8/CP.21  
  Report of the Global Environment Facility to the Conference 
of the Parties and guidance to the Global Environment 
Facility  
 The Conference of the Part ies, 
 Recalling  decisions 12/CP.2, 3/CP.16, 5/CP.16, 7/CP.16, 11/CP.17, 9/CP.18, 
6/CP.19 and 8/CP.20,  
 Welcoming the report of the Global Environment Facility to the Conference of the 
Parties at its twenty -first session and the information contained therein on the 
implementation of the sixth replenishment of the Global Environment Facility,1 
 Also welcoming the pledges and contributions made to the Least Developed 
Countries Fund and the Special Climate Change Fund,  
 Noting  the recommendations of the S tanding Committee on Finance contained in its 
report to the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -first session with regard to the 
provision of draft guidance to the Global Environment Facility,2 
1. Notes that the Global Environment Facility has supported i mplementation of the 
remaining elements of the least developed countries work programme, including the update 
and implementation of national adaptation programmes of action, by providing funding to 
projects aimed at building capacity for the least develope d countries to participate 
effectively in climate change processes, promoting public awareness on climate change 
issues, promoting the transfer of adaptation technology, and strengthening meteorological 
and hydrological services;  
2. Welcomes  the investments b y the Global Environment Facility in sustainable forest 
management and activities referred to in decision 1/CP.16, paragraph 70, harnessing 
multiple benefits  from forests and tackling deforestation and forest degradation in line with 
the programming direct ions of the sixth replenishment of the Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund;3  
3. Invites  the Global Environment Facility to continue to provide finance to the 
activities referred to in paragraph 2 above, also taking into account decision 9/CP.19, 
paragraph  8, and decision 16/CP.21 , as appropriate;  
4. Encourages  additional voluntary financial contributions to provide support for the 
national adaptation plan process through contributions to the Least Developed Countries 
Fund and the Special Climate Change Fund;  
5. Welcomes  the addition of eight project agencies to the network of  the Global 
Environment Facility;  
6. Notes  that the Independent Evaluation Office of the Global Environment Facility is 
carrying out a review of the Least Developed Countries Fund;  
                                                           
 1 FCCC/CP/2015/4 and Add.1.  
 2 FCCC/CP/2015/8, annex V.  
 3 See Global Environment Facility document GEF/A.5/07/Rev.01 . Available at 
<http://www.thegef.org/gef/gef_Documents_Publications >. FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.2  
14  7. Encourages  the Global Environment Facility to include the conclusions of the 
review referred to in paragraph 6 above in its report to the Conference of the Parties at its 
twenty -second session (November 2016);  
8. Requests  the Global Environment Facility to carry out a t echnical review of the 
programme priorities of the Least Developed Countries Fund, taking into account the 
independent review referred to in paragraph 6 above, and to focus the technical review on, 
inter alia:  
(a) Undertaking pilot concrete climate change acti vities that are particularly 
relevant for the least developed countries;  
(b) Enhancing longer -term institutional capacity to design and execute the 
activities referred to in paragraph 8(a) above;  
9. Urges the Global Environment Facility to work with all its agenc ies and recipient 
countries to ensure that these countries can take full advantage of the expanded network of 
agencies;  
10. Welcomes  the exploration of innovative non -grant instruments by the Global 
Environment Facility , and encourages  the Global Environment F acility to work with its 
agencies, recipient countries and the private sector to submit proposals;  
11. Also welcomes the approval of projects by the Global Environment Facility to 
support 46 developing country Parties in preparing their intended nationally det ermined 
contributions ,4 and encourages  the Global Environment Facility to continue providing such 
support;  
12. Requests the Global Environment Facility to consider how to support developing 
country Parties in formulating policies, strategies, programmes and pr ojects to implement 
activities that advance priorities identified in their respective intended nationally 
determined contributions in a manner consistent with the operational policies and 
guidelines of the Global Environment Facility, starting in 2016;  
13. Notes the actions of the Global Environment Facility to establish a more coherent, 
system -based approach for managing and sharing information and knowledge gained from 
projects and programmes of the Global Environment Facility in order to improve the 
effecti veness of the Global Environment Facility and its agencies and enhance the capacity 
of recipient countries;  
14. Welcomes  the efforts to date of the Global Environment Facility to engage with the 
Green Climate Fund and encourages  both entities to further articulate and build on the 
complementarity of their policies and programmes within the Financial Mechanism of the 
Convention;  
15. Invites Parties to submit to the secretariat annually, in writing and no later than 
10 weeks prior to e ach session of the Conference of the Parties, their views and 
recommendations on the elements to be taken into account in developing guidance to the 
Global Environment Facility;  
16. Requests  the Global Environment Facility  to include, in its annual report to t he 
Conference of the Parties, information on the steps it has taken to implement the guidance 
provided in this decision and other relevant decisions of the Conference of the Parties.  
10th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015  
                                                           
 4 As at 16 September 2015.  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.2  
 15 Decision 9/CP.21  
  Methodologies for the reporting of financial information by 
Parties included in Annex I to the Convention  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  Articles 4, 5, 7, 10 and 12 of the Convention,  
Also recalling  decisions 9/CP.2, 11/CP.4, 4/CP.5 and 1/CP.16, paragraph 40,  
Further recalling  decisions 2/CP.17, paragraph 19, and 11/CP.20,  
1. Recognizes  the need to enhance common understand ing on key terminology for 
reporting financial information under the Convention to facilitate transparency and 
comparability of information and data on support over time and across Parties;  
2. Welcomes  the submissions from Parties and observer organizations o n 
methodologies for the reporting of financial information, and the technical paper1 
summarizing existing international methodologies, drawing on relevant information 
contained in, inter alia, submissions from Parties and observer organizations;  
3. Also welco mes the joint in -session technical workshop on the methodologies for the 
reporting of financial information by Parties included in Annex I to the Convention 
organized under the auspices of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological 
Advice, the Su bsidiary Body for Implementation and the Standing Committee on Finance, 
taking note of the summary of the workshop;2 
4. Further welcomes  the update of the Standing Committee on Finance on this matter, 
as a part of its work on the measurement, reporting and ve rification of support beyond the 
biennial assessment and overview of climate finance flows provided during the forty -third 
session of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice;  
5. Welcomes  the recommendations of the Standing Committee on Finance on the 
methodologies for the reporting of financial information, as referred to in decision 2/CP.17, 
paragraph 19, contained in its report to the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -first 
sessio n;3  
6. Decides  to enhance consistency and transparency through adjustments in the 
reporting parameters in tables 7, 7(a) and 7(b) of the common tabular format  for the 
“UNFCCC biennial reporting guidelines for developed country Parties” by: 
(a) Creating reporting  fields for the provision of information on definitions or 
methodologies used for reporting information in the following reporting parameters: 
“climate -specific” or “core/general”, “status”, “funding source”, “activity”, “financial 
instrument”, “type of su pport” and “sector”;  
(b) Improving the software for tables 7, 7(a) and 7(b) of the common tabular 
format by extending the number of input rows in the Microsoft Excel file;  
                                                           
 1 FCCC /TP/2015/2 .  
 2 Available at 
<http://unfccc.int/files/cooperation_and_support/financial_mechanism/standing_committee/applicatio
n/pdf/summary_of_the_in -session_workshop_on_reporting_methodologies_final_web.pdf >. 
 3 FCCC/CP/2015 /8, annex VI.  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.2  
16  (c) Aligning the categorization in the reporting parameter “status” of support 
(“pledged”, “ committed” and “provided”) in tables 7, 7(a) and 7(b) of the common tabular 
format with the categorization used in other existing international methodologies 
(“committed” and “disbursed”);  
7. Requests  the secretariat to revise the electronic reporting applica tion for a common 
tabular format, in accordance with the provisions contained in the annex, in time for the 
preparation and submission of the biennial reports of Parties due in 2018;  
8. Decides  that developed country Parties shall use the revised electronic r eporting 
application, taking into account their national circumstances, when preparing and 
submitting their biennial reports in 2018 in accordance with decision 2/CP.17;  
9. Requests  Parties included in Annex II to the Convention to continue to provide 
inform ation on the underlying assumptions and the methodologies used in their biennial 
reports;  
10. Also requests  the secretariat to improve the software of the biennial report data 
interface to allow for search functions on the UNFCCC website to collect information  per 
key category in tables 7, 7(a) and 7(b) of the common tabular format (i.e. category 
“recipient country/region, financial instrument”);  
11. Further requests  the secretariat to explore ways of creating links to other reporting 
software and platforms to faci litate the importation and exportation of activity -level data , 
and to inform the Standing Committee on Finance to take this into consideration in its 
workplan;  
12. Requests  the secretariat to update the UNFCCC national focal points when the 
information referre d to in paragraph 6 above on climate finance directed to recipient 
countries as reported under the Convention is made available;  
13. Also requests  the Standing Committee on Finance to take into account the enhanced 
information provided by Parties included in A nnex II to the Convention referred to in 
paragraph 6 above in its biennial assessment and overview of climate finance flows;  
14. Further requests  the Standing Committee on Finance to take into account the work 
on the methodologies for the reporting of financia l information by Parties included in 
Annex I to the Convention in the context of its workplan on the measurement, reporting and 
verification of support;  
15. Invites  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to take into consideration the 
adjustments referred to i n paragraph 6 above in its revision of the “Guidelines for the 
preparation of national communications by Parties included in Annex I to the Convention, 
Part II: UNFCCC reporting guidelines on national communications”, to be completed at the 
twenty -second s ession of the Conference of the Parties  (November 2016) ; 
16. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat pursuant to the provisions contained in paragraphs 7, 10 and 11 above;  
17. Requests  that the acti ons of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.2  
 17 Annex  
Revised common tabular format for the “UNFCCC biennial reporting 
guidelines for developed country Parties”  
The following tables shall replace tables 7, 7(a) and 7(b) of the common tabular 
format for the “UNFCCC biennial reporting guidelines for developed country Parties” . 
  
 FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.2  
18  
 
Table 7  
Provision of public financial support: summary information in 20XX -3a 
 Year   
Allocation channel s Domestic currency   USDb 
Core/  
generalc, 1 Climate -specificd, 2  Core/  
generalc Climate -specificd, 2  
Mitigation  Adaptation  Cross -
cuttinge Otherf  Mitigation  Adaptation  Cross -
cuttinge Otherf 
Total contributions through 
multilateral channels:  
Multilateral climate 
change fundsg            
Other multilateral climate 
change fundsh            
Multilateral financial 
institutions, including 
regional development 
banks             
Specialized United 
Nations bodies             
Total contributions through 
bilateral, regional and other 
channels             
Total            
Note : Explanation of numerical footnotes is provided in the documentation box after tables 7, 7(a) and 7(b).  
Abbreviation :  USD = United States dollars.  
a   Parties should fill in a separate table for each year, namely 20XX -3 and 20XX -2, where 20XX is the reporting year.   
b   Parties should  provide an explanation of the methodology used for currency exchange for the information provided in tables 7, 7(a) and 7(b) in the documentation 
box. 
c   This refers  to support to multilateral institutions that Parties cannot specify as being climate -specific.  
d   Parties should explain in their biennial reports how they define funds as being climate -specific.  
e   This refers to funding for activities that are cross -cutting across mitigation and adaptation.  
f   Please specify.  
g   Multilateral climate ch ange funds listed in paragraph 17(a) of the “UNFCCC biennial reporting guidelines for developed country Parties” in decision 2/CP.17.  
h   Other multilateral climate change funds as referred to in paragraph 17(b) of the “UNFCCC biennial reporting guidelines for  developed country Parties” in decision 
2/CP.17.  
 
   
 
 19 
 FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.2  Table 7(a)  
Provision of public financial support: contribution through multilateral channels in 20XX -3a 
Donor funding  Total amount  Statusb, 3 Funding 
source4 Financial instrument5 Type of  
support6 Sectorc, 7 
Core/generald, 1 Climate -specifice, 2  
Committed  
 
Disbursed  
 ODA  
OOF  
Otherf Grant  
Concessional loan  
Non-concessional loan  
Equity  
Otherf Mitigation  
Adaptation  
Cross -cuttingg 
Otherf Energy  
Transport  
Industry  
Agriculture  
Forestry  
Water and sanitation  
Cross -cutting  
Otherf 
Not applicable  Domestic 
currency  USD  Domestic 
currency  USD  
Multilateral climate change funds  
1.  Global Environment Facility  
2.  Least Developed Countries Fund  
3.  Special Climate Change Fund  
4.  Adaptation Fund  
5.  Green Climate Fund  
6.  UNFCCC Trust Fund for Supplementary 
Activities  
7.  Other multilateral climate change funds      
     
Subtotal           
Multilateral financial institutions, including  
regional development banks  
1.  World Bank  
2.  International Finance Corporation  
3.  African Development Bank  
4.  Asian Development Bank  
5.  European Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development  
6.  Inter -American Development Bank  
7.  Other      
     
Subtotal           
Specialized United Nations bodies  
1.  United Nations Development Programme 
(specific programmes)  
2. United Nations Environment Programme      
      
 FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.2  
20  
 
Donor funding  Total amount  Statusb, 3 Funding 
source4 Financial instrument5 Type of  
support6 Sectorc, 7 
Core/generald, 1 Climate -specifice, 2  
Committed  
 
Disbursed  
 ODA  
OOF  
Otherf Grant  
Concessional loan  
Non-concessional loan  
Equity  
Otherf Mitigation  
Adaptation  
Cross -cuttingg 
Otherf Energy  
Transport  
Industry  
Agriculture  
Forestry  
Water and sanitation  
Cross -cutting  
Otherf 
Not applicable  Domestic 
currency  USD  Domestic 
currency  USD  
(specific programmes)  
3. Other  
Subtotal           
Total           
Note :  Explanation of numerical footnotes is provided in the documentation box after tables 7,  7(a) and 7(b).  
Abbreviations : ODA = official development assistance, OOF = other official flows, USD = United States dollars.  
a   Parties should fill in a separate table for each year, namely 20XX -3 and 20XX -2, where 20XX is the reporting year.  
b   Parties should  explain, in their biennial reports, the methodologies used to specify the funds as disbursed and committed. Parties will prov ide the information for as many 
status categories as appropriate in the following order of priority: disbursed and committed.  
c   Parties may select several applicable sectors. Parties may report sectoral distribution, as applicable, under “Other”.  
d   This refers to support to multilateral institutions that Parties cannot specify as being climate -specific.  
e   Parties should explain in their b iennial reports how they define funds as being climate -specific.  
f   Please specify.  
g   This refers to funding for activities that are cross -cutting across mitigation and adaptation.  
  
 
 21 
 FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.2  Table 7(b)  
Provision of public financial support: contribution through bilate ral, regional and other channels in 20XX -3a 
Recipient country/  
region/project/programme/activityb Total amount  Statusc, 3 Funding 
source4 Financial 
instrument5 Type of  
 support6 Secto rd, 7 Additional  
Informatione 
Climate -specificf, 2  
Committed  
 
Disbursed  ODA  
OOF  
Otherg Grant  
Concessional loan  
Non-concessional 
loan 
Equity  
Otherg Mitigation  
Adaptation  
Cross -cuttingh 
Otherg Energy  
Transport  
Industry  
Agriculture  
Forestry  
Water and sanitation  
Cross -cutting  
Otherg  
Domestic 
currency  USD   
          
          
          
          
Note : Explanation of numerical footnotes is provided in the documentation box after tables 7, 7(a) and 7(b).  
Abbreviations : ODA = official development assistance, OOF = other official flows, USD = United States dollars.  
a   Parties should fill in a separate table for each year, namely 20XX -3 and 20XX -2, where 20XX is the reporting year.  
b   Parties should report, to the extent possible, on details contained in this table.  
c   Parties should explain, in their biennial reports , the methodologies used to specify the funds as disbursed and committed. Parties will provide the information 
for as many status categories as appropriate in the following order of priority: disbursed and committed.  
d   Parties may select several applicable s ectors. Parties may report sectoral distribution, as applicable, under “Other”.  
e   Parties should report, as appropriate, on project details and the implementing agency.  
f   Parties should explain in their biennial reports how they define funds as being climate -specific.   
g   Please specify.  
h   This refers to funding for activities that are cross -cutting across mitigation and adaptation.  
 
   
 FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.2  
22  
 
Documentation box  
 
 
10th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015  
 
 1: Core/general  
 
2: Climate -specific  
 
3:  Status  
 
4:  Funding source  
 
5: Financial instrument  
 
6: Type  of support  
 
7: Sector  
 
Each Party shall provide an indication of what new and additional financial resources it has provided and clarify how it has determined that such resources are new and 
additional. Please provide this information in relation to tables 7(a) and (b).  
 FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.2  
 23 Decision 1 0/CP.21  
  The 2013 –2015 review  
 The Conference of the Parties , 
 Recalling  Article 2 of the Convention,  
 Also recalling  decisions 1/CP.16, paragraphs 138 and 139, 1/CP.17, paragraph 6, 
2/CP.17, paragraphs 157 –167, and 1/CP.18, paragraphs 79 –91, 
1. Takes note  of the work of the struct ured expert dialogue, which contributed to 
completing the phases of the 2013 –2015 review reflected in decision 2/CP.17, paragraph 
164, and of the report on the structured expert dialogue,1 including the 10 messages 
highlighted therein;  
2. Expresses  its apprec iation and gratitude to all those involved in the structured expert 
dialogue;  
3. Notes  that the structured expert dialogue completed its work, as described in 
decision 1/CP.18, paragraphs 86 –89; 
4. Decides , in relation to the adequacy of the long -term global goa l, and in the light of 
the ultimate objective of the Convention, that the goal is to hold the increase in the global 
average temperature to well below 2  °C above pre -industrial levels and to pursue efforts to 
limit the temperature increase to 1.5  °C above pre-industrial levels, recognizing that this 
would significantly reduce the risks and impacts of climate change;  
5. Also decides  that, in the light of the overall progress made towards achieving the 
long-term global goal, including consideration of the implem entation of the commitments 
under the Convention, Parties should act urgently and ambitiously under the Convention 
while recognizing the technological, economic and institutional challenges;  
6. Notes  that, although some progress has already been made by UNFCC C bodies in 
scaling up financial, technological and capacity -building support, significant gaps still exist 
in terms of both the scale and the speed of such progress;  
7. Also notes  that there continue to be information gaps in relation to the areas covered 
within the scope of the 2013 –2015 review as set out in decision 1/CP.18, paragraph 79;  
8. Encourages  the scientific community to address information and research gaps 
identified duri ng the structured expert dialogue, including scenarios that limit warming to 
below 1.5  °C relative to pre -industrial levels by 2100 and the range of impacts at the 
regional and local scales associated with those scenarios;  
9. Recalls  that the next periodic re view should be conducted in accordance with 
decision 2/CP.17, paragraph 167, and agrees  that the next periodic review should be 
conducted in an effective and efficient manner, avoid duplication of work, and take into 
account the results of relevant work co nducted under the Convention  and its Kyoto 
Protocol and the subsidiary bodies;  
10. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice and the 
Subsidiary Body for Implementation to consider the scope of the next periodic review, 
referred to in  paragraph 9 above, with a view to forwarding a recommendation for 
consideration by the Conference of the Parties by no later than 2018, as appropriate;  
                                                           
 1 FCCC/SB/2015/INF.1 . FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.2  
24  11. Agrees  to reconvene the structured expert dialogue in conjunction with the next 
periodic review;  
12. Notes  that the first periodic review fulfilled its mandate, as contained in decisions 
1/CP.16, paragraphs 138 and 139, 1/CP.17, paragraph 6, 2/CP.17, paragraphs 157 –167, and 
1/CP.18, paragraphs 79 –91. 
11th plenary meeting  
13 December 2015  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.2  
 25 Decision 11/CP.21  
  Forum and work programme on the impact of the 
implementation of response measures  
 The Conference of the Parties , 
 Recalling the objective of the Convention  as set out in its Article 2 , 
 Reaffirming the relevant principles and provisions of the Convention related to the 
economic and social consequences of response measures, in particular its Articles 2, 3 
and 4, 
 Recalling decisions 5/CP.7, 1/CP.10, 1/CP.13, 1/CP.16, 2/CP.17, 8/CP.17, 1/CP.18 
and 31/CMP.1, and Article 4, paragraphs 8, 9 and 10 , of the Convention, as well as Article 
2, paragraph 3, and Article 3, paragraph 14, of the Kyoto Protocol,  
 Acknowledging Parties’ re peated calls for a continued and structured exchange of 
information on both the positive and the negative consequences of response measures and 
on ways to maximize the positive and minimize the negative consequences for Parties, in 
line with the work progr amme on this matter developed by the subsidiary bodies,  
 Noting  that the review of the work of the forum on the impact of the implementation 
of response measures, pursuant to decision 8/CP.17, paragraph 5, has been concluded,  
 Affirming that a more focused  consideration of issues is needed for improving the 
effectiveness of the process,  
1. Decides  to continue and improve the forum on the impact of the implementation of 
response measures, which shall provide a platform allowing Parties to share, in an 
interacti ve manner, information, experiences, case studies, best practices and views, and to 
facilitate assessment and analysis of the impact of the implementation of response 
measures, with a view to recommending specific actions;  
2. Also decides to focus work under the improved forum  on, inter alia, the provision of 
concrete examples, case studies and practices in order to enhance the capacity of Parties, in 
particular developing country Parties, to deal with the impact of the implementation of 
response measures;  
3. Requests the Chairs of the subsidiary bodies to convene the improved forum in order 
to implement the work programme on the impact of the implementation of response 
measures referred to in paragraph 5 below, which will continue to be convened under a 
joint agenda item of the subsidiary bodies and operate in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to contact groups. The improved forum shall meet twice a year in conjunction 
with the sessions of the subsidiary bodies, with its first meeting taking place at th e forty -
fourth sessions (May 2016) of the subsidiary bodies;  
4. Also requests the subsidiary bodies , in order to advance the work of the improved 
forum, to constitute ad hoc technical expert groups, as appropriate, to elaborate on the 
technical work under the  improved forum. The ad hoc technical expert groups shall consist 
of balanced regional representation of Parties;  
5. Adopts  the work programme comprising the following areas:  
(a) Economic diversification and transformation;  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.2  
26  (b) Just transition of the workforce, and t he creation of decent work and quality 
jobs;  
6. Decides  that the implementation of the work programme shall address the needs of 
all Parties, in particular developing country Parties, and shall be informed, inter alia, by the 
assessment and analysis of impact s, including the use and development of economic 
modelling, taking into account all relevant policy issues of concern;  
7. Requests the subsidiary bodies to review every three years, beginning at their forty -
ninth sessions (November 2018), the work programme o f the improved forum, including 
the modalities for its operation;  
8. Decides  that the improved forum shall provide recommendations to the subsidiary 
bodies on the actions referred to in paragraph 1 above for their consideration, with a view 
to recommending th ose actions, as appropriate, to the Conference of the Parties, beginning 
at its twenty -third session (November  2017);  
9. Requests the secretariat to prepare, subject to the availability of financial resources,  
a guidance document to assist developing country Parties to assess the impact of the 
implementation of response measures, including guidance on modelling tools, as well as 
technical materials to assist developing country Parties in their economic diversification 
initiatives, for consideration at the fort y-fourth sessions of the subsidiary bodies;  
10. Takes  note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat pursuant to the provisions contained in paragraph 9 above ; 
11. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
11th plenary meeting  
13 December  2015  
 FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.2  
 27 Decision 12/CP.21  
  Enhancing climate technology development and transfer 
through the Technology Mechanism  
The Conference of the Parties ,  
 Recalling  decisions 1/CP.16, 2/CP.17, 4/CP.17, 1/CP.18, 13/CP.18, 14/CP.18, 
25/CP.19, 16/CP.20 and 17/CP.20, in particular paragraph 3,  
1. Welcomes with appreciation  the joint annual report of the Technology Executive 
Committee and the Climate Technology Centre and Ne twork for 2015,1 which contains 
information on their respective activities and on the performance of their respective 
functions;  
2. Invites  the Technology Executive Committee and the Advisory Board of the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network to update the procedures2 for preparing the joint chapter of 
their joint annual report;  
3. Also invites  Parties and all relevant entities working on techno logy development and 
transfer to consider the key messages contained in the report referred to in paragraph 1 
above;  
4. Welcomes the interim report by the Technology Executive Committee on guidance 
on enhanced implementation of the results of technology need s assessments,3 noting that 
the report should be considered final;  
5. Notes  that the Technology Executive Committee is to elaborate the outline for 
guidance on the preparation of technology action plans, contained in the annex to the report 
referred to in pa ragraph 4 above, and make it available in early 2016 to developing countr y 
Parties for use in informing the technology needs assessment process;  
6. Invites the Climate Technology Centre and Network to use the guidance referred to 
in paragraph 5 above when re sponding to requests from developing countr y Parties 
regarding the provision of assistance to enable the implementation of the results of their 
technology needs assessments.  
10th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015  
                                                           
 1 FCCC/SB/2015/1 .  
 2 See document FCCC/SB/2013/1, paragraph 3 .  
 3 FCCC/SB/2015/INF.3 .  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.2  
28  Decision 13/CP.21  
  Linkages between the Technology Mechanism and the 
Financial Mechanism  of the Convention  
The Conference of the Parties ,  
 Recalling  decisions 1/CP.18, paragraph 62, and 3/CP.17, paragraph 17,  
1. Welcomes with appreciation  the recommendations of the Technology Executive 
Committee on linkages between the Technology Mechanism and the Financial Mechanism, 
as contained in the report of the Technology Executive Committee on this matter;1 
2. Welcomes the ongoing and  positive dialogue between the Green Climate Fund, the 
Global Environment Facility, the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network;  
3. Also welcomes  the contribution of the Global Environment Facility to the activities 
of the  Climate Technology Centre and Network and looks forward to ongoing cooperation 
between these two entities;  
4. Invites  the Board of the Green Climate Fund to provide its recommendations, in 
accordance with decision 1/CP.18, paragraph 62, for consideration by the Conference of the 
Parties at its twenty -second session (November 2016);  
5. Recognizes the importance of and the need for defined, mutually beneficial and 
functional linkages between the Technology Mechanism and the Financial Mechanism 
through its operating entities, the Global Environment Facility and the Green Climate Fund;  
6. Also recognizes  that the definition and elaboration of linkages between the 
Technology Mechanism and the Financial Mechanism has the aim of ensuring financial 
resources for, an d scaling up action on, technology development and transfer;  
7. Underlines  the need for the Technology Executive Committee, the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network and the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism to 
enhance cooperation and collaboratio n with a view to enhancing the fulfilment and 
implementation of their respective mandates effectively, in accordance with Article 12, 
paragraph 4, of the Convention;  
8. Requests the Technology Executive Committee, the Climate Technology Centre and 
Network and  the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism to continue to consult on 
and further elaborate, including through an in -session workshop at the forty -fourth sessions 
of the subsidiary bodies (May 2016), the linkages between the Technology Mechanism and  
the Financial Mechanism;  
9. Also requests the Technology Executive Committee to include, in its annual report, 
the findings arising from the activities referred to in paragraph 8 above for consideration by 
the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -second s ession, taking into consideration the 
recommendations referred to in paragraph 4 above;  
10. Invites  the Board of the Green Climate Fund, in line with paragraph 38 of the 
governing instrument of the Green Climate Fund ,2 to consider ways to provide support, 
                                                           
 1 FCCC/CP/2014/6 . 
 2 Decision 3/CP.17, annex.  
 FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.2  
29 pursuant to the modalities of the Green Climate Fund, for facilitating access to 
environmentally sound technologies in developing countr y Parties , and for undertaking 
collaborative research and development for enabling developing countr y Parties  to enhance  
their mitigation and adaptation action.  
11th plenary meeting  
13 December 2015  
     
GE.16 -01198(E)  
*1601198*   
 
Conference of the Parties  
Report of the Conference of the Parties on its twenty -first 
session, held in Paris from 30 November to 13 December 2015  
  Addendum  
Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties at its 
twenty -first session  
Contents  
  Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties  
Decision   Page 
  14/CP.21  Capacity -building under the Convention  ................................ ................................ ...  2 
  15/CP.21  Terms of reference for the intermediate review of the Doha work programme on  
Article 6 of the Convention  ................................ ................................ .......................   7 
  16/CP.21  Alternative policy approaches, such as joint mitigation and adaptation approaches  
for the integral and sustainable management of forests  ................................ .............   11 
  17/CP.21  Further guidance on ensuring transparency, consistency, comprehensiveness and  
effectiveness when informing on how all the safeguards re ferred to in decision  
1/CP.16, appendix I, are being addressed and respected  ................................ ...........   13 
  18/CP.21  Methodological issues related to non -carbon benefits resulting from the  
implementation of the activities referred to in decision 1/CP.16, paragraph 70  ........   15 
  19/CP. 21 Extension of the mandate of the Least Developed Countries Expert Group  ..............   16 
  20/CP.21  Technical review in 2016 of greenhouse gas inventories from Parties included in  
Annex I to the Convention  ................................ ................................ .........................   19 
  21/CP.21  Administrative, financial and institutional m atters  ................................ ....................   20 
  22/CP.21  Programme budget for the biennium 2016 –2017  ................................ ......................   22 
  23/CP.21  Dates and venues of future sessions  ................................ ................................ ...........   33 
  Resolution  
  1/CP.2 1 Expression  of gratitude to the Government of the French Republic and the  
people of the city of Paris  ................................ ................................ ..........................   35  United Nations  FCCC /CP/2015/10/Add.3  
 
 
  
Distr.: General  
29 January 2016  
 
Original: English  
FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.3  
2  Decision 14/CP.21  
  Capacity -building under the Convention  
The Conference of the Parties , 
 Recalling  decisions 2/CP.7 , 4/CP.12, 1/CP.16 , 2/CP.17 and 1/CP.18 , 
1. Adopts the terms of reference for the third comprehensive review of the 
implementation of the framework for capacity -building in developing countries established 
under decision 2/CP.7  (hereinafter referred to as the c apacity -building framework) as 
contained in the annex;  
2. Requests the Subsidiary  Body for Implementation to conduct the comprehensive 
review of the implementation of the capacity -building framework at its forty -fourth  session  
(May 2016)  on the basis of  the terms of reference referred to in paragraph 1 above , with a 
view to recommending a draft decision on this matter for consideration and adoption by the 
Conference of Partie s at its twenty -second session (November 2016);  
3. Also requests the secretariat  to prepare a technical paper based on the terms of 
reference referred to in paragraph 1 above as input to the comprehensive review;  
4. Invites Parties and observer  organizations to submit their views on the 
comprehensive review by 9 March 20161 for compilation by the secretariat into a 
miscellaneous document;  
5. Encourages  Parties to continue  to provide information through the appropriate 
channels, including annual submissions on the implementation of the capacity -building 
framework, national communications, bienni al reports and biennial update reports, on the 
progress made in enhancing capacity to address climate change;  
6. Urges  relevant bodies established  under the Convention to continue to undertake  
capacity -building activities in their work, as appropriate;  
7. Stress es that the Durban Forum  for in -depth discussion on capacity -building  
(hereinafter referred to as the Durban Forum) is a platform to share experiences and 
exchange ideas, best practices and lessons learned regarding the implementation of 
capacity -building activities with the participation of Parties, representatives of the relevant 
bodies established under the Convention , and relevant experts and practitioners;  
8. Invites  representatives of the relevant bodies established under the Convention, 
operating entiti es of the Financial Mechanism of the Convention, intergovernmental and 
non-governmental organizations, and relevant experts and practitioners to integrate into 
their work programmes  and activities the lessons learned at, and the main outcomes of, the 
meeti ngs of the Durban Forum;  
9. Decides  that the 5th meeting  of the Durban Forum, to be held during the forty -fourth 
session of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation, will explore potentia l ways for 
enhancing capacity -building by sharing information and varied e xperiences;  
  
                                                           
 1  Parties should submit their views via the submissions portal at <http://www.unfccc.int/5900 >. 
Observer organizations should e -mail their submissions to < secretariat@unfccc.int >. FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.3  
 3 10. Invites  United Nations agencies and multilateral organizations to provide 
information to the secretariat for the capacity -building portal ;2 
11. Also invites  Parties to submit via the submissions portal3 by 9 March 2016, as part of 
their annual submissions pursuant to decision 4/CP.12 , suggestions on additional  potential 
topics for the 5th meeting of the Durban Forum and their views on possible ways to enhance 
the information included in the capacity -build ing portal.  
                                                           
 2 <http://unfccc.int/capacitybuilding/core/activities.html >. 
 3  <http://www.unfccc.int/5900 >.  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.3  
4  Annex  
 Terms of reference for the third comprehensive review of the 
implementation of the framework for capacity -building in developing 
countries  
[English only]  
I. Mandate  
1. The Conference of the Parties (COP) decided to initiate the third comprehensive 
review of the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in developing 
countries established under decision 2/C P.7 (hereinafter referred to as the capacity -building 
framework) at the forty -second session of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation (SBI) 
with a view to completing the review at COP 22.1 
2. The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Partie s to the Kyoto 
Protocol (CMP) decided to initiate the third comprehensive review of the implementation 
of the capacity -building framework at SBI 42 with a view to completing the review at 
CMP  12.2 
II. Objectives  
3. The third comprehensive review of the implementation of the capacity -building 
framework has the following objectives:  
(a) To explore ways to enhance the implementation of capacity -building 
activities by reviewing the current institutional arrangements related to capacity -building, 
including the th ematic bodies under the Convention, with a view to making 
recommendations for the enhancement of these arrangements, as appropriate;  
(b) To take stock of progress in and assess the effectiveness of the 
implementation of the capacity -building framework;  
(c) To exam ine possible gaps between the provisions of decisions of the COP 
and the CMP and the implementation of capacity -building activities;  
(d) To identify lessons learned and best practices with a view to developing 
options for the enhanced implementation of the cap acity -building framework, taking into 
account additional needs and priorities for capacity -building;  
(e) To effectively review gaps and challenges in addressing the implementation 
of priority areas as contained in the capacity -building framework and in meeting  capacity -
building needs to enhance action on mitigation, adaptation and technology transfer;  
(f) To effectively review capacity gaps and challenges in accessing climate 
finance;  
                                                           
 1 Decision 13/CP.17, paragraph 7.  
 2 Decision 15/CMP.7, paragraph 8.  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.3  
 5 (g) To provide recommendations to the SBI on ways to effectively address the 
capacit y-building gaps at the individual, institutional and systemic levels, including those 
identified by the first3 and second4 comprehensive reviews of the implementation of 
the capacity -building framework;  
(h) To explore potential ways to further enhance the implementation of capacity -
building activities at the national level;  
(i) To identify major actors supporting the implementation of the capacity -
building framework within and outside the arrangements established under the Convention 
and its Kyoto Protocol;  
(j) To review the operation of the Durban Forum for in -depth discussion on 
capacity -building  (hereinafter referred to as the Durban Forum)  and identify potential ways 
to enhance it.  
III. General principles  of the comprehensive review process  
4. The third comprehensive re view of the implementation of the capacity -building 
framework should be conducted on the basis of the guiding principles and approaches 
outlined in decision 2/CP.7, annex, chapter B , and should take into account relevant 
provisions in related COP5 and CMP6 decisions on capacity -building.  
IV. Information  sources  
5. Information to be used in the third comprehensive review of the implementation of 
the capacity -building framework should be drawn from, inter alia:  
(a) Submissions from Parties;  
(b) Findings of the firs t7 and se cond8 comprehensive reviews of the 
implementation of the capacity -building framework;  
(c) Annual synthesis reports on the implementation of the capacity -building 
framework prepared in accordance with the steps for the regular monitoring and evaluation 
of capac ity-building work as contained in decisions 4/CP.12 and 6/CMP.2 ; 
(d) Relevant national reports (such as national communications, biennial reports, 
biennial update reports, national adaptation programmes of action and their updates, 
outcomes of the national ada ptation plan process, and national capacity self -assessments);  
(e) Reports and submissions from the Global Environment Facility and its 
implementing agencies, United Nations entities and other relevant organizations;  
(f) Information contained in the capacity -build ing portal;9  
(g) Summary reports on the meetings of the Durban Forum;  
                                                           
 3 Decision 2/CP.10.  
 4 Decisions 13/CP.17 and 15/CMP.7 . 
 5 Decisions 4/CP.9, 9/CP.9, 2/CP.10, 4/CP.12, 6/CP.14, 10/CP.16, 1/CP.16, 2/CP.17, 13/CP.17 and 
1/CP.18.  
 6 Decisions 7/CMP.1, 29/CMP.1, 6/CMP.2, 6/CMP.4, 11/CMP.6, 15/CMP.7 and 10/CMP.8.  
 7 Decision 2/CP.10.  
 8 Decisions 13/CP.17 and 15/CMP.7.  
 9 <http://unfccc.int/capacitybuilding/core/activities.html >. FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.3  
6  (h) Reports of relevant bodies established under the Convention and its Kyoto 
Protocol;  
(i) Interviews, surveys and focused discussions with national focal points for 
Article 6 of the Convention and other relevant national focal points;  
(j) Other relevant existing documents prepared by the secretariat.  
V. Modalities  of work  
6. Drawing upon the information sources listed in chapter IV above and taking into 
account the objectives listed in chapter II above, the secretariat will prepare, for 
consideration at SBI 44, a report on the implementation of the capacity -building 
framework, including:  
(a) Descriptions of capacity -building programmes and activities;  
(b) Identification of needs and gaps and an assessment of fact ors that influence 
the effectiveness of capacity -building activities in developing countries;  
(c) Key results and impacts;  
(d) Information on the extent and variety of stakeholders within developing 
countries (governmental and non -governmental organizations, the p rivate sector, 
community organizations, etc.) involved in, and benefiting from, capacity -building 
activities;  
(e) The availability of and access to resources and the effectiveness of their 
deployment;  
(f) Recommendations for the further implementation of the capac ity-building 
framework;  
(g) Assessment of the different baselines and performance indicators for 
capacity -building.  
10th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.3  
 7 Decision  15/CP.21  
  Terms of reference for the intermediate review of the Doha 
work programme on Article 6 of the Convention  
The Conference of the Parties , 
 Recalling  decision 15/CP.18 , 
 Recognizing the progress made by Parties, international organizations and civil 
society in planning, coordinating and implementing activities relating to all the elements  of 
Article 6 of the Convention  – education, training, public awareness, public participation, 
public access to informa tion, and international cooperation on these matters , 
 Also recognizing that ensuring the availability of sufficient financial and technical 
resources continues to be a challenge for the implementation of Article 6 of the Convention 
for Parties, in particu lar African countries, the least developed countries and small island 
developing States , 
 Reaffirming the importance of taking into account gender aspects and the need to 
promote the effective engagement of children, youth, the elderly, women, persons with  
disabilities, indigenous peoples, local communities and non -governmental organizations in 
activities related to Article 6 of the Convention , 
 Re-emphasizing the importance of building and strengthening the skills and 
capacities of national focal points fo r Article 6 of the Convention, including by continuing 
to facilitate a regular exchange of views, good practices and lessons learned through the 
organization of workshops, videoconferences and activities at the international, regional 
and national levels , 
 Recalling  the invitation to multilateral and bilateral institutions and organizations, 
including operating entities of the Financial Mechanism of the Convention, as appropriate, 
to provide financial support for the activities relating to the implementatio n of Article 6 of 
the Convention , 
 Also recalling the Lima Ministerial Declaration on Education and Awareness -
raising ,1 which stresses that education, training, public awareness, public participation, 
public access to information, knowledge and internation al cooperation play a fundamental 
role in meeting the ultimate objective of the Convention and in promoting climate -resilient 
sustainable development , 
1. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to launch the intermediate review 
of the implementation o f the Doha work programme on Article 6 of the Convention at its 
forty -fourth session (May 2016) on the basis of the terms of reference contained in the 
annex, with a view to the review being completed by November 2016 ; 
2. Encourages  United Nations organizatio ns, in particular the members of the United 
Nations Alliance on Climate Change Education, Training and Public Awareness, to submit 
information on the results of their activities, including reports from relevant regional and 
subregional workshops, as approp riate, in order to support the implementation of the Doha 
work programme ; 
                                                           
 1  Decision 19/CP.20.  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.3  
8  3. Requests  the Global Environment Facility to report on the progress made in 
providing financial support and implementing activities to contribute to the implementation 
of the Doha work programme ; 
4. Invites multilateral and bilateral institutions and organizations, the private sector and 
donors to report on financial resources provided to support the activities relating to the 
implementation of Article 6 of the Convention ; 
5. Requests the secretariat : 
(a) To prepare a report on the progress made, as well as emerging g aps, needs 
and recommendations by Parties, admitted observer organizations and other stakeholders in 
implementing the Doha work programme as input to the intermediate review, as s pecifi ed 
in paragraph 5 of the terms of reference contained in the annex, for consideration by the 
Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its forty -fourth session ; 
(b) To continue facilitating a regular exchange of views, good practices and 
lessons learned amon g national focal points for Article 6 of the Convention ; 
(c) To continue collaborating with admitted observer organizations and other 
stakeholders and the members of the United Nations Alliance on Climate Change 
Education, Training and Public Awareness so as t o catalyse action on Article 6 of the 
Convention ; 
6. Also requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be 
undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources . FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.3  
 9 Annex  
  Terms of reference for the intermediate review of the Doha work 
programme on Article 6 of the Convention  
I. Mandate  
1. At its eighteenth session, the Conference of the Parties (COP) adopted the eight -year 
Doha work programme on Article 6 of the Convention and decided that it would be 
reviewed in 2020, with an intermediate review of progress in 2016, to evaluate its 
effecti veness, identify any emerging gaps and needs, and inform any decisions on 
improving the effectiveness of the work programme, as appropriate .1 
2. By the same decision, the COP requested the secretariat to prepare reports on the 
progress made by Parties in impl ementing Article 6 of the Convention based on 
information contained in national communications, reports on the annual in -session 
Dialogue on Article 6 and other sources of information, including a report on good 
practices of stakeholder participation in im plementing Article 6 activities.2 These reports 
will be issued regularly and in particular for the intermediate progress review in 2016 and 
the review in 2020 . 
II. Objectives  
3. With a view to encouraging improvement based on experience, the objectives of the 
intermediate review of the progress made in the implementation of the Doha work 
programme are : 
(a) To take stock of the progress made in the implementation of the Doha work 
programme to date, noting that this work is still ongoing ; 
(b) To take stock of progress in th e integration of Article 6 activities into existing 
climate change adaptation and mitigation programmes, strategies and activities ; 
(c) To identify essential needs for, potential gaps in and barriers to the 
implementation of the Doha work programme ; 
(d) To identif y good practices and lessons learned with a view to their 
dissemination, promotion and replication, as appropriate ; 
(e) To identify recommendations on further steps for improving the effective 
implementation of the Doha work programme . 
III. Information sources  
4. Information for the intermediate review of the implementation of the Doha work 
programme should be drawn from, inter alia : 
(a) Reports on the annual in -session Dialogue on Article 6 of the Convention ; 
                                                           
 1 Decision 15/CP.18, paragraphs 1 and 2.  
 2 Decision 15/CP.18, annex, paragraph 35(a).  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.3  
10  (b) A report on good practices of stakeholder participation in implementing 
Article 6 of the Convention;3 
(c) Submissions from Parties, admitted observer organizations and other 
stakeholders  made in response to an invitation by the Subsidiary Body for Implementation 
(SBI) at its forty -second session, containing informatio n on steps taken to implement the 
Doha work programme,  such as efforts to consider the linkages between Article 6 activities, 
implementation of policies and measures to mitigate and adapt to climate change, and on 
emerging gaps  and needs , as well as recomm endations on further steps for improv ing the 
effective implementation of the Doha work programme ; 
(d) Relevant conclusions adopted at SBI 40,4 including the annex to document 
FCCC/SBI/2014/L.20 ; 
(e) National communications and other relevant national reports ; 
(f) Relevant information and resource materials from United Nations 
organizations, in particular the members of the United Nations Alliance on Climate Change 
Education, Training and Public Awareness ; 
(g) Reports and submissions from the operating entities of the Financial 
Mechanism of the Convention and its implementing agencies on financial support provided 
and activities implemented to contribute to the implementation of the Doha work 
programme ; 
(h) Reports and submissions from multilateral and bilateral institution s and 
organizations, the private sector and donors on financial resources provided to support the 
implementation of Article 6 of the Convention . 
IV. Modalities of review and expected outcomes  
5. Drawing upon the information sources listed in paragraph 4 above , the secretariat 
will prepare for consideration at SBI 44 (May 2016) : 
(a) A synthesis report on the progress made by Parties, admitted observer 
organizations and other stakeholders in implementing the Doha work programme ; 
(b) A report on the functionality and accessi bility of the information network 
clearing house CC:iNet . 
6. SBI 44 will consider the documents referred to in paragraph 5 above and any other 
information relevant to the completion of the intermediate review, including the 
information referred to in paragrap h 4 above, with a view to recommending a draft decision 
on this matter for consideration and adoption at COP 22 (November 2016) . 
10th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015
                                                           
 3 FCCC/SBI/2014/3.  
 4  FCCC/SBI/2014/8, paragraphs 169 –173. FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.3  
 11 Decision 16/CP.21  
  Alternative policy approaches, such as joint mitigation and 
adaptation approaches for the integral and sustainable 
management of forests  
 The Conference of the Parties , 
 Recalling  decisions 2/CP.17, paragraph 67, and 1/CP.18, paragraph 39,  
1. Notes  that methodological aspects related to non -market -based approaches as 
referred to in decision 1/CP.18, paragraph 39 , have been addressed by decisions 9/CP.19 to 
15/CP.19 ; 
2. Also notes  the references to alternative policy approaches, such as joint mitigat ion 
and adaptation approaches for the integral and sustainable management of forests, as 
referred to in decision 9/CP.19 , and the need to provide clarity on such approaches as per 
this decision;  
3. Acknowledges  that alternative policy approaches, such as j oint mitigation and 
adaptation approaches for the integral and sustainable management of forests, are subject to 
the methodological guidance contained in decision 4/CP.15, paragraph 1 , as well as the 
guidance on safeguards and on systems for providing info rmation on how the safeguards 
are being addressed and respected when addressing issues related to the reduction of 
emissions from deforestation and forest degradation and the role of conservation, 
sustainable management of forests and enhancement of forest  carbon stocks;  
4. Recognizes that alternative policy approaches, such as joint mitigation and 
adaptation approaches for the integral and sustainable management of forests, are one of the 
alternatives to results -based payments, as referred to in decision 9 /CP.19 , that may 
contribute to the long -term sustainability of the implementation of the activities referred to 
in decision 1/CP.16, paragraph 70;  
5. Decides  that developing country Parties seeking to receive support for the design 
and implementation of al ternative policy approaches, such as joint mitigation and 
adaptation approaches for the integral and sustainable management of forests, may consider 
the following elements:  
(a) Development of national strategies or action plans for the implementation of 
the activities referred to in decision 1/CP.16, paragraph 70, in order to support the integral 
and sustainable management of forests;  
(b) Identification of support needs, including financial resources an d technical 
and technological support;  
(c) Development of proposals demonstrating how alternative policy approaches, 
such as joint mitigation and adaptation approaches for the integral and sustainable 
management of forests, are contributing to the activiti es referred to in decision 1/CP.16, 
paragraph 70;  
(d) Consideration of outcomes and areas of improvement in accordance with 
national circumstances by using adaptive management and learning, as appropriate;  
6. Notes  that the financing entities referred to i n decision 9/CP.19, paragraph 5 , are 
encouraged to continue to provide financial resources, including through the wide variety of 
sources referred to in decision 2/CP.17, paragraph 65,  for alternative policy approaches, FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.3  
12  such as joint mitigation and adaptat ion approaches for the integral and sustainable 
management of forests;  
7. Invites  Parties that want to implement alternative policy approaches, such as joint 
mitigation and adaptation approaches for the integral and sustainable management of 
forests, to su pport the implementation of the activities referred to in decision 1/CP.16, 
paragraph 70, to share information via the web platform on the UNFCCC website;1 
8. Decides  to conclude its consideration of alternative policy approaches, such as joint 
mitigation and adaptation approaches for the integral and sustainable management of 
forests, in the context of decision 1/CP.18, paragraph 39 . 
10th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015  
                                                           
 1 <http://unfccc.int/4531>.  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.3  
 13 Decision 17/CP.21  
  Further guidance on ensuring transparency, consistency, 
comprehensiveness and effectiveness when informing on how 
all the safeguards referred to in decision 1/CP.16, appendix  I, 
are being addressed and respected  
 The Conference of the Parties , 
 Recalling  decisions 1/CP.16, 12/CP.17, 9/CP.19, 11/CP.19 and 12/CP.19,  
 Noting  that the implementation of the safeguards referred to in decision 1/CP.16, 
appendix I, and the information pro vided on how these safeguards are being addressed and 
respected should take into account national circumstances and respective capabilities and 
recognize national sovereignty and legislation and relevant international obligations and 
agreements,  
 Recalling  the importance and necessity of adequate and predictable financial and 
technical support for developing all of the elements referred to in decision 1/CP.16, 
paragraph 71,  
 Also r ecalling  that the monitoring and reporting of emissions displacement at the 
national level is agreed separately in decision 1/CP.16, paragraph 71(c),  
1. Reiterates  that, in accordance with decision 12/CP.17, paragraphs 1 and 3 , 
developing country Parties undertaking the activities referred to in decision 1/CP.16, 
paragraph 70, should provide a summary of information on how all the safeguards referred 
to in decision 1/CP.16, appendix I, are being addressed and respected throughout the 
implementation of those activities;  
2. Also reiterates  that the summary of information referred to in paragraph 1 above 
should be provided periodically, in accordance with decisions 12/CP.17 and 12/CP.19 ; 
3. Notes  that information on how all the safeguards are being addressed and respected 
should be provided in a way that ensures transparency, consis tency, comprehensiveness and 
effectiveness;  
4. Decides  that developing country Parties should provide information on which 
activity or activities referred to in decision 1/CP.16, paragraph 70, are included in the 
summary of information referred to in parag raph 1 above, taking into account decision 
12/CP.17, paragraphs 1 and 3 , and decision 9/CP.19, paragraph 4 ; 
5. Strongly encourages  developing country Parties, when providing the summary of 
information referred to in paragraph 1 above, to include the follow ing elements, where 
appropriate:  
(a) Information on national circumstances relevant to addressing and respecting 
the safeguards;  
(b) A description of each safeguard in accordance with national circumstances;  
(c) A description of existing systems and proces ses relevant to addressing and 
respecting safeguards, including the information systems referred to in decision 12/CP.17 , 
in accordance with national circumstances;  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.3  
14  (d) Information on how each of the safeguards has been addressed and respected, 
in accordan ce with national circumstances;  
6. Encourages  developing country Parties to provide any other relevant information on 
the safeguards in the summary of information referred to in paragraph 1 above;  
7. Also encourages  developing country Parties to improve the information provided in 
the summary of information referred to in paragraph 1 above , taking into account the 
stepwise approach;  
8. Decides  that there is no need for further guidance pursuant to decision 12/CP.17, 
paragraph 6,  to ensure transparency, consistency, comprehensiveness and effectiveness 
when informing on how all the safeguards are being addressed and respected.  
10th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.3  
 15 Decision 18/CP.21  
  Methodological issues related to non -carbon benefits 
resulting from the implementation of the activities referred to 
in decision 1/CP.16, paragraph 7 0 
The Conference of the Parties,  
 Recalling  decisions 1/CP.16, 1/CP.18 and 9/CP.19, paragraph 22,  
 Reaffirming  the importance of incentivizing non -carbon benefits for the long -term 
sustainability of the implementation of the activities referred to in decis ion 1/CP.16, 
paragraph 70, recognized in decision 9/CP.19, paragraph 22,  
 Recognizing  that multiple non -carbon benefits associated with the activities referred 
to in decision 1/CP.16, paragraph 70, can contribute to adaptation,  
1. Recognizes  that non -carbon benefits associated with the activities referred to in 
decision 1/CP.16, paragraph 70, are unique to countries’ national circumstances, in 
accordance with national sovereignty, legislation, policies and priorities;  
2. Also recognizes  that, in line with their national circumstances and capabilities, 
developing country Parties seeking support for the integration of non -carbon benefits into 
activities referred to in decision 1/CP.16, paragraph 70, with a view to contributing to the 
long-term sustainability of those activities, may provide information addressing, inter alia, 
the nature, scale and importance of the non -carbon benefits;  
3. Encourages  developing country Parties to share the information referred to in 
paragraph 2 above via the  web platform on the UNFCCC website;1  
4. Invites  interested developing country Parties to communicate the information 
referred to in paragraph 2 above for consideration by interested Parties and relevant 
financing entities, as appropriate;  
5. Decides  that methodological issues related to non -carbon benefits resulting from the 
implementation of the activities referred to in decision 1/CP.16, paragraph 70, do not 
constitute a requirement for developing country Parties seeking to receive support for the 
imple mentation of the actions and activities referred to in decision 1/CP.16 or results -based 
payments pursuant to decision 9/CP.19 ; 
6. Agrees  to conclude at this session the work on methodological issues related to non -
carbon benefits from the implementation o f the activities referred to in decision 1/CP.16, 
paragraph 70.  
10th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015  
                                                           
 1 <http://unfccc.int/4531>.  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.3  
16  Decision 19/CP.21  
  Extension of the mandate of the Least Developed Countries 
Expert Group  
The Conference of the Parties ,  
Recalling  decisions 5/CP.7, 7/CP.7, 27/CP.7, 28/CP.7, 29/CP.7, 7/CP.9, 4/CP.10, 
4/CP.11, 8/CP.13, 6/CP.16, 3/CP.17, 5/CP.17, 12/CP.18 and 3/CP.20,  
Recognizing the specific needs and special situation of the least developed countries 
under Article 4, paragraph 9, of the Convention,  
Having considered the reports on the meetings of the Least Developed Countries 
Expert Group, the views of Parties on the work of the Least Developed Countries Expert 
Group, t he report on the stocktaking meeting on the work of the Least Developed 
Countries Expert Group and the synthesis report on the progress, need for continuation and 
terms of reference of the Least Developed Countries Expert Group,1 
Noting the importance of t he Least Developed Countries Expert Group as a body 
that provides high -quality and relevant information on adaptation for the least developed 
countries , 
Also noting  that the least developed country Parties continue to require support for, 
inter alia, the p rocess to formulate and implement national adaptation plans, engagement 
with the Green Climate Fund, regional approaches to adaptation, and the implementation 
of the least developed countries work programme,  
1. Decides to extend the mandate of the Least Devel oped Countries Expert Group 
under its current terms of reference;2 
2. Also decides  that the Least Developed Countries Expert Group should be mandated 
to provide technical guidance and advice on:  
(a) The integration of climate change adaptation into national p lanning and the 
development of programmes that address both objectives of the process to formulate and 
implement national adaptation plans;  
(b) Regional approaches to adaptation planning;3 
(c) Accessing funding from the Green Climate Fund for the process t o formulate 
and implement national adaptation plans in collaboration with the Green Climate Fund  
secretariat;  
(d) Needs related to adaptation that may arise from the Paris  Agreement and the 
decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -first session, as determined 
by Parties;  
3. Invites the Least Developed Countries Expert Group to consider the need to update 
the least developed countries work programme and to make recommendations for 
consideration by the Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its forty -eighth session (April –
                                                           
 1 Documents FCCC/SBI/2015/7, FCCC/SBI/2015/MISC.2, FCCC/SBI/2015/8 and FCCC/SBI/2015/6, 
respectively.  
 2 Decisions 29/CP.7, 7/CP.9, 4/CP.11, 8/CP.13, 6/CP.16, 5/CP.17, 12/CP.18 and 3/CP.20.  
 3 See document  FCCC/SBI/2015/8.   FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.3  
 17 May 2018), with a view to those recommendations being forwarded to the Conference of 
the Parties at its twenty -fourth session (November  2018), as appropriate;  
4. Requests  the Least Developed Countries Expert Group, in accordance with 
paragraphs 1 and 2  above , when developing its two -year rolling work programme to take 
into account the compilation of elements contained in annex I to document 
FCC C/SBI/2015/8  and the compilation of gaps and needs in the least developed countries,  
considered at this session;4 
5. Also requests the Least Developed Countries Expert Group  to invite the Green 
Climate Fund secretariat  to its meetings, as appropriate;  
6. Furthe r requests  the Least Developed Countries Expert Group, recognizing  its good 
collaboration with the Global Environment Facility, to continue to invite the Global 
Environment Facility and its agencies to its meetings, as appropriate;  
7. Requests the Least Devel oped Countries Expert Group  to collaborate with other 
constituted bodies under the Convention, including by inviting members of these bodies to 
participate, as appropriate, in its meetings;  
8. Decides  that the membership of the Least Developed Countries Exper t Group should 
remain at 13 members;  
9. Encourages the Least Developed Countries Expert Group to invite representatives of 
regional centres or networks to its meetings as observers, as appropriate;  
10. Also encourages the Least Developed Countries Expert Group to  invite relevant 
regional centres to nominate one focal point each for the Least Developed Countries Expert 
Group with a view to enhancing collaboration with those centres;  
11. Invites  the Least Developed Countries Expert Group to invite representatives of 
global programmes, projects and/or networks that support the process to formulate and 
implement national adaptation plans to its meetings, as appropriate, as a way to promote the 
exchange of experiences and lessons learned ; 
12. Decides that, in accordance with decision 7/CP.9, paragraph 2 , new experts may be 
nominated to the Least Developed Countries Expert Group or existing members of the 
group may continue in office, as determined by the respective regions or groups, taking into 
account the goal of gender balanc e in established bodies , in accordance with decision 
23/CP.18, paragraph 2 ; 
13. Also decides to review, at its twenty -sixth session, the progress, need for 
continuation and terms of reference of the Least Developed Countries Expert Group , with a 
view to adopting a decision thereon, taking into account, as appropriate, new processes and 
needs that may arise prior to that session;  
14. Further decides  on the following actions and steps necessary for the Subsidiary 
Body for Implementation to init iate the re view referred to in paragraph 13  above at its fifty -
second session:  
(a) To request the Least Developed Countries Expert Group to convene before 
June 2020, with the assistance of the secretariat, a meeting with representatives of Parties 
and rele vant organizations, to take stock of its work;  
                                                           
 4 See documents FCCC/SBI/2015/6, FCCC/SBI/2015/7, FCCC/SBI/2015/8, FCCC/SBI/2015/INF.6 
and FCCC/SBI/2015/INF.14 .  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.3  
18  (b) To invite Parties to submit their views on the work of the Least Developed 
Countries Expert Group via the submissions portal5 by 1 February 2020,  for consideration 
by the Subsidiary Bo dy for Implementation  at its fif ty-second  session;  
(c) To request the secretariat to prepare a report on the stocktaking mee ting 
referred to in paragraph 14 (a) above for consideration by the Subsidiary Body for 
Implementation at its fifty -second session, as input to the review ; 
(d) To request the secretariat to prepare a synthesis report on the progress, need 
for continuation and terms of reference of the Least Developed Countries Expert Group 
based on submissions from Parties, reports of the Least Developed Countries Expert Gr oup, 
the report of the stocktaking meeting referred to in paragraph 1 4(c) above and other 
relevant information for consideration by the Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its 
fifty-second session, as input to the review;  
15. Requests the secretariat to cont inue to facilitate the work of the Least Developed 
Countries Expert Group . 
10th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015  
                                                           
 5  <http://www.unfccc.int/5900 >. FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.3  
 19 Decision 2 0/CP.21  
  Technical review in 2016 of greenhouse gas inventories from 
Parties included in Annex I to the Convention  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling decisions 12/CP.9, 24/CP.19 and 13/CP.20,  
Emphasizing the importance of ensuring that the Conference  of the Parties has 
adequate and reliable information on annual greenhouse gas inventories from Parties 
included in Annex I to the Convention (Annex I Parties),  
Recognizing  that owing to a  delay in the availability of a functioning CRF Reporter, 
not all An nex I Parties were able to submit their 2015 greenhouse gas inventories in time to 
start the review process of those inventories in 2015,  
1. Requests the secretariat to organize, for Parties included in Annex I to the 
Convention  (Annex I Parties) that did not undergo a review of their annual greenhouse gas 
inventory in 2015, the review of their 2015 greenhouse gas inventory submission under the 
Convention in conjunction with the review of their 2016 greenhouse gas inventory 
submi ssion, ensuring that the reviews are organized in accordance with decision 13/CP.20;  
2. Decides  that the expert review teams shall review identical information only once , 
and that t he expert review teams shall produce a separate, complete review  report for ea ch 
Party for each year, but may replicate the same review text in both review reports 
concerning identical information in both years’ inventories;  
3. Also decides that the exceptional measures taken under paragraph 1 above to review 
the greenhouse gas invento ries for Annex I Parties for the years 2015 and 2016 shall not be 
precedent -setting for future work;  
4. Requests the secretariat to make every effort to facilitate future reviews in 
accordance with decision 13/CP.20 and any subsequent relevant decisions, wit hout 
exception;  
5. Also requests  the secretariat to continue to make im provements to the CRF Reporter 
functionality, prioritizing the resolution of outstanding issues related to transparency and 
accuracy, noting that the CRF Reporter is not yet fully function ing. 
10th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.3  
20  Decision 2 1/CP.21  
  Administrative, financial and institutional matters  
The Conference of the Parties ,  
Recalling decision 27/CP.19, in which the programme budget for the biennium 
2014 –2015 was approved ,  
Also recalling paragraph 11  of the financial procedures for the Conference of the 
Parties,  its subsidiary bodies and the secretariat1 
Having considered the information contained in the documents prepared by the 
secretariat on administrative, financial and institutional matters ,2 
I. Budget performance for the biennium 2014 –2015  
1. Takes note  of the information contained in the report on budget performance for the 
period 1 January 2014 to 30 June 20153 and the status of contributions to the trust funds 
administered by the secretariat as at 15 November 2015 ;4 
2. Welcomes the Executive Secretary’s efforts to address budgetary limits by 
enhancing effectiveness and efficien cy, including reducing staffing costs through post 
management ; 
3. Expresses  appreciation  to Parties that made contributions to the core budget in a 
timely manner ; 
4. Urges  Parties that have not made contributions to the core budget in full for the 
current and/or  previous bienni ums to do so without delay ; 
5. Calls upon  Parties to make their contributions to the core budget for the biennium 
2016 –2017 in a timely manner, bearing in mind that contributions are due on 1 January of 
each year , in accordance with the financ ial procedures of the Conference of the Parties ; 
6. Expresses  appreciation  for the contributions received from Parties to the Trust Fund 
for Participation in the UNFCCC Process and to the Trust Fund for Supplementary 
Activities ; 
7. Urges  Parties to contribute fu rther to the Trust Fund for Participation in the 
UNFCCC Process in order to ensure the widest possible participation in the negotiations in 
2016, and to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities ; 
8. Reiterates  its appreciation  to the Government of Germany f or its annual voluntary 
contribution to the core budget of EUR  766,938 and its special contribution as Host 
Government of the secretariat  of EUR  1,789,522 ; 
                                                           
 1 Decision 15/CP.1, annex I, as revised by decision 23/CP.20.  
 2 FCCC/SBI/2015/13, FCCC /SBI/2015/INF.10 and FCCC/SBI/2015/INF.17.  
 3 FCCC/SBI/2015/13.  
 4 FCCC/SBI/2015/INF.17.  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.3  
 21 II. Audit report and financial statements for 2014  
9. Takes note  of the audit report of the United Nations Board of Auditors,5 which 
includes recommendations and the financial statements for 2014, and the comments of the 
secretariat thereon ; 
10. Expresses  its appreciation  to the United Nations for arranging the audits of the 
accounts of the Convention and for the v aluable observations and recommendations of the 
auditors ; 
11. Urges the Executive Secretary to implement the recommendations of the auditors, as 
appropriate . 
10th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015  
                                                           
 5 FCCC/SBI/2015/INF.10.  FCCC/CP/2015 /10/Add.3  
22  Decision 2 2/CP.21  
  Programme budget for the biennium 2016 –2017  
The Conference of the Parties ,  
Recalling  paragraph 4 of the financial procedures for the Conference of the Parties, 
its subsidiary bodies and the secretariat,1 
Having considered the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2016 –2017 
submitted by the Executive Secretary,2 
1. Approves  the progra mme budget for the biennium 2016 –2017, amounting to 
EUR  54,648,484, for the purposes specified  in table 1 ;3 
2. Notes with appreciation the annual  contribution of EUR  766,938 of the Host 
Government  of the secretariat , which offsets planned expenditures ; 
3. Approves the staffing table ( table  2) for the programme budget ; 
4. Notes  that the programme budget contains elements relating to the Convention as 
well as to its Kyoto Protocol ; 
5. Adopts the indicative scale of contributions for 2016 and 2017 contained in  the 
annex, covering 71.2 per cent of the indicative contributions specified in table 1 ; 
6. Invites  the Conference of the Parties  serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Kyoto Protocol, at its eleventh session, to endorse the elements of the recommend ed budget 
as it applies to the Kyoto Protocol ; 
7. Also invites  the United Nations General Assembly to decide at its seventieth session 
on the issue of meeting the conference services  expenses from the United Nations  regular 
budget ; 
8. Approves a contingenc y budget for conference services, amounting to 
EUR  10,378,900, to be added to the programme budget for the biennium 2016 –2017 in the 
event that the United Nations General Assembly decides not to provide resources for these 
activities in the United Nations regular budget (see table 3) ; 
9. Requests the Executive Secretary to report to the Subsidiary Body for 
Implementation on the implementation of paragraphs 7 and 8 above, as necessary;  
10. Authorizes  the Executive Secretary to make transfers between each of the main 
appropriation lines set out in table 1, up to an aggregate limit of 15 per cent of total 
estimated expenditure for those appropriation  lines, provided that a further limitation of up 
to minus 25 per cent of each such appropriation line shall apply ; 
                                                           
 1 Decision 15/CP.1, annex I, as revised by decision 23/CP.20.  
 2 FCCC/SBI/2015/3 and Add.1 –3. 
 3 Recognizes that, in accordance with decision  13/CP.20 , three operational approaches may be used for 
implementing the technical review of the greenhouse gas inventories of Parties included in Annex I to 
the Convention, namely desk reviews, centralized reviews and in -country reviews, assuming availabl e 
resources, and recognizes that the secretariat may implement such reviews according to decision 
13/CP.20 in 2016 –2017, taking into account the programme budget and supplementary resources 
provided for under this decision.  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.3  
 23 11. Decides  to maintain the level of the working  capital reserve at 8.3 per cent of the 
estimated expenditure;  
12. Takes note  of the surplus accumulated under the Trust Fund for the Core Budget of 
the UNFCCC as at 31 December 2014 , amounting to USD  6.337  million;  
13. Decides , on an exceptional basis, not to apply the last sentence of regulation 5.3 of 
the Financial Regulations and Rules of the United Nations ,4 which would require the 
surrender of the accumulated surplus referred to in paragraph 12 above;  
14. Invites  all Parties to the Convention to note that contributions to the core budget are 
due on 1 January of each year , in accordance with paragraph 8(b) of the financial 
procedures , and to pay promptly and in full, for each of the years 2016 and 2017, the 
contributions required to finance expenditures approved under paragraph 1 above and any 
contributions required to finance the expenditures arising from the decision referred to in 
paragraph 8 above;  
15. Authorizes  the Executive Secretary to implement d ecisions taken by the Conference 
of the Parties at its twenty -first session for which provisions are not made under the 
approved budget, using voluntary contributions and to the extent possible, resources 
available under the core budget;  
16. Urges  Parties to make voluntary contributions as necessary for the timely 
implementation of the decisions referred to in paragraph  15 above;  
17. Takes note  of the funding estimates for the Trust Fund for Participation in the 
UNFCCC Process specified by the Executive Sec retary (table 4);  
18. Invites  Parties to make contributions to the Trust Fund for Participation in the 
UNFCCC Process;  
19. Takes note  of the funding estimates for the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities 
specified by the Executive Secretary (EUR 51,647, 777 for the biennium 2016 –2017) 
(table  5); 
20. Invites  Parties to make contributions to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities;  
21. Requests  the Executive Secretary to report to the Conference of the Parties at its 
twenty -second session (November 2016 ) on income and budget performance, and to 
propose any adjustments that might be needed in the programme budget for the biennium 
2016 –2017;  
22. Also requests  the Executive Secretary to facilitate the consideration of future 
programme budget proposals by in cluding in the official budget documents budget 
scenarios, including zero nominal growth, together with information on the related 
implications of the implementation of the secretariat’s work programme and the estimated 
impacts on the level of indicative c ontributions by Parties, and by submitting at least 15 
days in advance of the relevant session of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation the 
latest unaudited financial statements and an update on the implementation of the approved 
core budget.  
                                                           
 4 United Nations Secretariat d ocument ST/SGB/2013/4.  FCCC/CP/2015 /10/Add.3  
24  Table 1  
Proposed core budget for 2016 –2017 by programme  
 
2016 (EUR)  2017 (EUR)  Total 2016–2017 
(EUR)  
A. Programme appropriations     
Executive Direction and Management  2 250 862  2 210 862  4 461 724  
Mitigation, Data and Analysis  7 611 688  7 611 688  15 223 376  
Finance, Technology and Capacity -Building  2 732 260  2 732 627  5 464 887  
Adaptation  2 335 712  2 336 252  4 671 964  
Sustainable Development Mechanisms  406 250  369 990  776 240  
Legal Affairs  1 304 455  1 304 455  2 608 910  
Conference Affairs Services  1 691 137  1 633 142  3 324 279  
Communications and Outreach  1 591 177  1 478 722  3 069 899  
Information Technology Services  2 874 780  2 690 771  5 565 551  
Administrative Servicesa    
B. Secretariat -wide operating costsb  1 402 358  1 829 358  3 231 716  
Programme expenditures (A + B)  24 200 679  24 197 867  48 398 546  
C. Programme support costs (overheads)c 3 146 088  3 145 723  6 291 811  
D. Adjustment to working capital reserved (41 609)  (264)  (41 873)  
Total (A + B + C + D)  27 305 158  27 343 326  54 648 484  
Income     
Contribution from the Host Government  766 938  766 938  1 533 876  
Indicative contributions  26 538 220  26 576 388  53 114 608  
Total income  27 305 158  27 343 326  54 648 484  
a   Administrative  Services is funded from programme support costs (overheads).  
b   Secretariat -wide operating costs are managed by Administrative Services . 
c   Standard  13 per cent applied for administrative support.  
d   In accordance with the financial procedures (decision 15/CP.1), the core budget is required to maintain a working capital 
reserve of 8.3 per cent (one month of operating requirements) amounting to EUR 2,269,782 in 2016 and EUR 2,269,518 in 2017.  
Table 2  
Secr etariat -wide staffing from the core budget  
 2015  2016  2017  
Professional category and above ª    
ASG  1 1 1 
D-2 3 3 3 
D-1 7 7 7 
P-5 15 15 15 
P-4 35 35 35 
P-3 43 43 43 
P-2 16 16 16 
Subtotal Professional category and above  120 120 120 
Subtotal General Service category  53.5 53.5 53.5 
Total  173.5  173.5  173.5  
a   Assistant Secretary -General (ASG), Director (D) and Professional (P).  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.3  
 25 Table 3  
Resource requirements for the conference services contingency  
 2016 (EUR)  2017 (EUR)  Total 2016–2017 (EUR)  
Object of expenditure     
Interpretationa  1 258 100   1 295 900   2 554 000  
Documentationb    
Translation   2 104 500   2 167 700    4 272 200  
Reproduction and distribution   719 900   741 500   1 461 400  
Meetings services supportc  259 200   266 900   526 100  
Subtotal   4 341 700   4 472 000   8 813 700  
Programme support costs   564 400   581 400   1 145 800  
Working capital reserve   407 200   12 200   419 400  
Total   5 313 300   5 065 600   10 378 900  
Note : Assumptions used for calculating the conference services contingency budget include the following:  
 The expected number of meetings with interpretation does not exceed 40 per session;  
 The expected documentation volume is based on the calculations provided by the United Nations Office at Geneva;  
 Meetings services support includes staff normally provided by the United Nations Office at Geneva conference services for 
the in -session coordination and support of interpretation, translation and reproduction services;  
 Overall, the figures used are conservative and have be en applied on the assumption that there will be no major increase in 
requirements during the biennium.  
a   Includes salaries, travel and daily subsistence allowance for interpreters.  
b   Includes all costs related to the processing of pre -, in- and post -session documentation; translation costs include revision and 
typing of documents.  
c   Includes salaries, travel and daily subsistence allowance for meetings services support staff and costs of shipment and 
telecommunications.  
Table 4  
Resource requirements for the Tr ust Fund for Participation in the UNFCCC Process in the 
biennium 2016 –2017  
Number of delegates  Estimated cost (EUR)  
Support for one delegate from each eligible Party to participate in a one -week session organized 
in Bonn, Germanya 615 000  
Support for one delegate from each eligible Party to participate in a two -week session organized 
in Bonna 960 000  
Support for one delegate from each eligible Party plus a second delegate from each least 
developed country and each small island developing State to participate in a two -week session 
organized in Bonna 1 485 000  
Support for two delegates from each eligible Party to participate in a two -week session 
organized in Paris, Francea 2 350 000  
Support for two delegates from each eligible Party plus a third delegate from each least 
developed country and each small island developing State to participate in a two -week session 
organized in Parisa 3 000 000  
a   Locations provided as examples.  
  FCCC/CP/2015 /10/Add.3  
26  Table 5  
Resource requirements for the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities in the biennium 2016 –2017a  
Table no .b Activities to be undertaken by the secretariat  EUR  
 Convention   
2 
 Coordinating the implementation of the Paris outcome, institutional arrangements under the 
Convention and efforts to mobilize and catalyse climate action  2 108 444  
3 Support to gender mainstreaming in climate change policy and action  398 800  
4 
 
 Supporting the work of the Consultative Group of Experts on National Communications from 
Parties not included in Annex I to the Convention on implementing the measurement, reporting and 
verification framework for developing country Parties  1 843 304  
8 
 Supporting the implementation of national greenhouse gas (GHG) inventories and related activities 
by non -Annex I Parties, including national forest monitoring systems  529 643  
9 Supporting the implementation of enhanced action on mitigation by developing country Parties  2 323 497  
11 
 Supporting the work programme for the development of modalities and guidelines for enhanced 
reporting by developed country Parties and the international assessment and review process  1 621 731  
13 Further improvements and development of the nationally appropriate mitigation action registry  585 340  
15 Support to technical dialogue on nationally determined contributions  2 074 725  
16 
 Supporting the operationalization of the international consultation and analysis process for 
developing country Parties  2 302 760  
17 
 Supporting the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice consideration of issues 
relating to agriculture  275 720  
18 Supporting the work of the Standing Committee on Finance  1 159 380  
19 Support to climate finance  333 802  
20 
 
 Supporting the implementation of the Technology Mechanism and the work of the Technology 
Executive Committee, including the implementation of the framework for meaningful and effective 
actions to enhance the implementation of Article 4, para graph 5, of the Convention  1 193 981  
22 
 Supporting the implementation of the Nairobi work programme on impacts, vulnerability and 
adaptation to climate change  1 301 172  
23 Supporting the implementation of the Cancun Adaptation Framework  5 340 425  
24 Supporting the least developed countries and the Least Developed Countries Expert Group  3 389 096  
25 Supporting activities relating to climate change science, research and systematic observation  534 230  
26 
 Supporting the periodic review of the adequacy of the long -term global goal referred to in decision 
1/CP.16, paragraph 4  493 189  
27 
 Supporting the implementation of adaptation mandates of a cross -cutting nature, including those 
relating to the Durban Platform, stakeholder engagement, communications and outreach  1 022 952  
29 Support to stakeholder engagement in the UNFCCC process  746 193  
31 
 Developing internal communication tools and channels within the secretariat, in order to enhance 
communication between management and staff and among staff  243 402  
32 
 
 Managing and preserving sound recordings of all the sessions of the Conference of the Parties, the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the 
subsidiary bodies  1 010 646  
36 
 
 Managing and preserving video recordings of the sessions of the Conference of the Parties, the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the 
subsidiary bodies  492 646  
37 
 The development and maintenance of  the secretariat’s vocabulary for information retrieval in all 
secretariat systems  319 944  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.3  
 27 Table no .b Activities to be undertaken by the secretariat  EUR  
 Subtotal  31 645 022  
 Kyoto Protocol   
5 
 Enhancement and maintenance of the compilation and accounting database under the Kyoto 
Protocol  577 204  
28 Support to  the Compliance Committee  505 901  
 Subtotal  1 083 105  
 Convention and its Kyoto Protocol   
6 
 
 Activities relating to land use, land -use change and forestry: reducing emissions from deforestation 
and forest degradation, enhancement of forest carbon sinks, and the role of sinks in future 
mitigation actions  2 242 598  
7 Providing training for expert review teams and organizing meetings of the lead reviewers  1 524 485  
10 Supporting activities relating to the impact of the implementation of response measures  1 086 608  
12 
 Supporting the upgraded software (CRF Reporter) for the reporting of GHG emissions/removals by 
Annex I Parties  1 523 466  
14 
 
 Maintenance and enhancement of the UNFCCC data warehouse and related information technology 
tools and data-processing systems, including tools for the review of GHG inventories and the 
operation of the GHG data interface on the UNFCCC website  660 711  
21 
 
 Supporting the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in developing countries 
established under decision 2/CP.7 and the framework for capacity -building in countries with 
economies in transition established under decision 3/CP.7  266 002  
30 Further development of the Electronic Official Documentation System  52 048  
33 Managing the secretariat’s business records  1 135 853  
34 Providing archive services for the historical records of the UNFCCC  1 394 578  
35 Enhancing information governance  276 398  
38 Website project – digital enhancements post -2015 (web/social media)  1 179 042  
39 
 UNFCCC web portal in the six United Nations languages (Arabic, Chinese, English, French, 
Russian and Spanish)  2 185 782  
40 Visualization of UNFCCC process information and data  808 402  
41 Developing country media training workshops  395 500  
42 Web and outreach for greater climate action  1 411 912  
43 Momentum for Change  2 308 346  
44 Activities to support the implementation of Article 6 of the Convention  467 919  
 Subtotal  18 919 650  
 Grand total  51 647 777  
a   The table includes projects for which funding is sought from Parties. Projects funded from other sources are not listed.  
b   Table numbers refer to the tables contained in document FCCC/SBI/2015/3/Add.2 . 
  FCCC/CP/2015 /10/Add.3  
28  Annex  
Indicative scale of contributions from Parties to the Convention for the 
biennium 2016 –2017  
[English only]  
Party  United  Nations  scale of 
assessments for 2015  UNFCCC adjusted  scale 
of assessments for 2016  UNFCCC adjusted scale of 
assessments for 2017  
Afghanistan  0.005  0.005  0.005  
Albania  0.010  0.010  0.010  
Algeria  0.137  0.134  0.134  
Andorra  0.008  0.008  0.008  
Angola  0.010  0.010  0.010  
Antigua and Barbuda  0.002  0.002  0.002  
Argentina  0.432  0.421  0.421  
Armenia  0.007  0.007  0.007  
Australia  2.074  2.022  2.022  
Austria  0.798  0.778  0.778  
Azerbaijan  0.040  0.039  0.039  
Bahamas  0.017  0.017  0.017  
Bahrain  0.039  0.038  0.038  
Bangladesh  0.010  0.010  0.010  
Barbados  0.008  0.008  0.008  
Belarus  0.056  0.055  0.055  
Belgium  0.998  0.973  0.973  
Belize  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Benin  0.003  0.003  0.003  
Bhutan  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Bolivia (Plurinational State of)  0.009  0.009  0.009  
Bosnia and Herzegovina  0.017  0.017  0.017  
Botswana  0.017  0.017  0.017  
Brazil  2.934  2.861  2.861  
Brunei Darussalam  0.026  0.025  0.025  
Bulgaria  0.047  0.046  0.046  
Burkina Faso  0.003  0.003  0.003  
Burundi  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Cabo Verde  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Cambodia  0.004  0.004  0.004  
Cameroon  0.012  0.012  0.012  
Canada  2.984  2.909  2.909  
Central African Republic  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Chad  0.002  0.002  0.002  
Chile  0.334  0.326  0.326  
China  5.148  5.019  5.019  
Colombia  0.259  0.253  0.253  
Comoros  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Congo  0.005  0.005  0.005  
Cook Islands  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Costa Rica  0.038  0.037  0.037  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.3  
 29 Party  United  Nations  scale of 
assessments for 2015  UNFCCC adjusted  scale 
of assessments for 2016  UNFCCC adjusted scale of 
assessments for 2017  
Côte d’Ivoire  0.011  0.011  0.011  
Croatia  0.126  0.123  0.123  
Cuba  0.069  0.067  0.067  
Cyprus  0.047  0.046  0.046  
Czech Republic  0.386  0.376  0.376  
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea  0.006  0.006  0.006  
Democratic Republic of the Congo  0.003  0.003  0.003  
Denmark  0.675  0.658  0.658  
Djibouti  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Dominica  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Dominican Republic  0.045  0.044  0.044  
Ecuador  0.044  0.043  0.043  
Egypt  0.134  0.131  0.131  
El Salvador  0.016  0.016  0.016  
Equatorial Guinea  0.010  0.010  0.010  
Eritrea  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Estonia  0.040  0.039  0.039  
Ethiopia  0.010  0.010  0.010  
European Union  2.500  2.500  2.500  
Fiji 0.003  0.003  0.003  
Finland  0.519  0.506  0.506  
France  5.593  5.453  5.453  
Gabon  0.020  0.019  0.019  
Gambia  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Georgia  0.007  0.007  0.007  
Germany  7.141  6.962  6.962  
Ghana  0.014  0.014  0.014  
Greece  0.638  0.622  0.622  
Grenada  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Guatemala  0.027  0.026  0.026  
Guinea  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Guinea -Bissau  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Guyana  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Haiti  0.003  0.003  0.003  
Honduras  0.008  0.008  0.008  
Hungary  0.266  0.259  0.259  
Iceland  0.027  0.026  0.026  
India  0.666  0.649  0.649  
Indonesia  0.346  0.337  0.337  
Iran (Islamic Republic of)  0.356  0.347  0.347  
Iraq 0.068  0.066  0.066  
Ireland  0.418  0.408  0.408  
Israel  0.396  0.386  0.386  
Italy 4.448  4.337  4.337  
Jamaica  0.011  0.011  0.011  
Japan  10.833  10.562  10.562  
Jordan  0.022  0.021  0.021  
Kazakhstan  0.121  0.118  0.118  
Kenya  0.013  0.013  0.013  FCCC/CP/2015 /10/Add.3  
30  Party  United  Nations  scale of 
assessments for 2015  UNFCCC adjusted  scale 
of assessments for 2016  UNFCCC adjusted scale of 
assessments for 2017  
Kiribati  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Kuwait  0.273  0.266  0.266  
Kyrgyzstan  0.002  0.002  0.002  
Lao People’s Democratic Republic  0.002  0.002  0.002  
Latvia  0.047  0.046  0.046  
Lebanon  0.042  0.041  0.041  
Lesotho  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Liberia  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Libya  0.142  0.138  0.138  
Liechtenstein  0.009  0.009  0.009  
Lithuania  0.073  0.071  0.071  
Luxembourg  0.081  0.079  0.079  
Madagascar  0.003  0.003  0.003  
Malawi  0.002  0.002  0.002  
Malaysia  0.281  0.274  0.274  
Maldives  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Mali  0.004  0.004  0.004  
Malta  0.016  0.016  0.016  
Marshall Islands  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Mauritania  0.002  0.002  0.002  
Mauritius  0.013  0.013  0.013  
Mexico  1.842  1.796  1.796  
Micronesia (Federated States of)  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Monaco  0.012  0.012  0.012  
Mongolia  0.003  0.003  0.003  
Montenegro  0.005  0.005  0.005  
Morocco  0.062  0.060  0.060  
Mozambique  0.003  0.003  0.003  
Myanmar  0.010  0.010  0.010  
Namibia  0.010  0.010  0.010  
Nauru  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Nepal  0.006  0.006  0.006  
Netherlands  1.654  1.613  1.613  
New Zealand  0.253  0.247  0.247  
Nicaragua  0.003  0.003  0.003  
Niger  0.002  0.002  0.002  
Nigeria  0.090  0.088  0.088  
Niue  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Norway  0.851  0.830  0.830  
Oman  0.102  0.099  0.099  
Pakistan  0.085  0.083  0.083  
Palau  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Panama  0.026  0.025  0.025  
Papua New  Guinea  0.004  0.004  0.004  
Paraguay  0.010  0.010  0.010  
Peru 0.117  0.114  0.114  
Philippines  0.154  0.150  0.150  
Poland  0.921  0.898  0.898  
Portugal  0.474  0.462  0.462  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.3  
 31 Party  United  Nations  scale of 
assessments for 2015  UNFCCC adjusted  scale 
of assessments for 2016  UNFCCC adjusted scale of 
assessments for 2017  
Qatar  0.209  0.204  0.204  
Republic of Korea  1.994  1.944  1.944  
Republic of Moldova  0.003  0.003  0.003  
Romania  0.226  0.220  0.220  
Russian Federation  2.438  2.377  2.377  
Rwanda  0.002  0.002  0.002  
Saint Kitts and Nevis  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Saint Lucia  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Samoa  0.001  0.001  0.001  
San Marino  0.003  0.003  0.003  
Sao Tome and Principe  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Saudi Arabia  0.864  0.842  0.842  
Senegal  0.006  0.006  0.006  
Serbia  0.040  0.039  0.039  
Seychelles  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Sierra Leone  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Singapore  0.384  0.374  0.374  
Slovakia  0.171  0.167  0.167  
Slovenia  0.100  0.097  0.097  
Solomon Islands  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Somalia  0.001  0.001  0.001  
South Africa  0.372  0.363  0.363  
South Sudan  0.004  0.004  0.004  
Spain  2.973  2.899  2.899  
Sri Lanka  0.025  0.024  0.024  
Sudan  0.010  0.010  0.010  
Suriname  0.004  0.004  0.004  
Swaziland  0.003  0.003  0.003  
Sweden  0.960  0.936  0.936  
Switzerland  1.047  1.021  1.021  
Syrian Arab Republic  0.036  0.035  0.035  
Tajikistan  0.003  0.003  0.003  
Thailand  0.239  0.233  0.233  
The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia  0.008  0.008  0.008  
Timor -Leste  0.002  0.002  0.002  
Togo  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Tonga  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Trinidad and Tobago  0.044  0.043  0.043  
Tunisia  0.036  0.035  0.035  
Turkey  1.328  1.295  1.295  
Turkmenistan  0.019  0.019  0.019  
Tuvalu  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Uganda  0.006  0.006  0.006  
Ukraine  0.099  0.097  0.097  
United Arab Emirates  0.595  0.580  0.580  
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland  5.179  5.049  5.049  
United Republic of Tanzania  0.009  0.009  0.009  
United States of America  22.000  21.449  21.449  FCCC/CP/2015 /10/Add.3  
32  Party  United  Nations  scale of 
assessments for 2015  UNFCCC adjusted  scale 
of assessments for 2016  UNFCCC adjusted scale of 
assessments for 2017  
Uruguay  0.052  0.051  0.051  
Uzbekistan  0.015  0.015  0.015  
Vanuatu  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)  0.627  0.611  0.611  
Viet Nam  0.042  0.041  0.041  
Yemen  0.010  0.010  0.010  
Zambia  0.006  0.006  0.006  
Zimbabwe  0.002  0.002  0.002  
Total  102.502  100.000  100.000  
 
10th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.3  
 33 Decision 2 3/CP.21  
  Dates and venues of future sessions  
 The Conference of the Parties ,  
 Recalling  Article 7, paragraph 4, of the Convention , 
Also recalling United Nations General Assembly resolution 40/243 of 18 December 
1985 on the pattern of conferences,  
Further recalling rule 22, paragraph 1, of the draft rules of procedure being applied 
regarding the rotation of the office of President among the five regi onal groups,   
I. Dates and venues of future sessions  
A. Twenty -second session of the Conference of the Parties and twelfth 
session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  
1. Decides  to accept with appreciation th e offer by the Kingdom of Morocco to host 
the twenty -second session of the Conference of the Parties and the twelfth session of the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol in 
Marrakesh, Morocco, from Monday, 7 November , to Friday, 18 November 2016, in 
conformity with United Nations General Assembly resolution 40/243, and subject to the 
successful conclusion of a Host Country Agreement;  
2. Requests  the Executive Secretary to continue consultations with the Kingdom  of 
Morocco and to negotiate and finalize a Host Country Agreement for convening the 
sessions that complies with the provisions of the United Nations administrative instruction 
ST/AI/342, with a view to concluding and signing the Host Country Agreement not l ater 
than the forty -fourth sessions of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological 
Advice and the Subsidiary Body for Implementation;  
B. Twenty -third  session of the Conference of the Parties and thirteen th 
session of the Conference of the Parties ser ving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  
3. Notes  that, in keeping with the principle of rotation among regional groups, the 
President of the twenty -third session of the Conference of the Parties and the thirteenth 
session of the Conference of  the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol would come from the Asia -Pacific States;  
4. Invites  Parties to undertake further consultations on the hosting of those sessions, 
which will be held from Monday, 6 November , to Friday, 17  November 2017;  
5. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation, at its forty -fourth session, to 
consider the issue o f the host of the twenty -third session of the Conference of the Parties 
and the thirteenth session of the Conference of the Parties serving  as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and to recommend a draft decision on this matter for 
consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -second session;  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.3  
34  C. Twenty -fourth  session of the Conference of the Parties and fourteenth  
session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  
6. Notes  that, in keeping with the principle of rotation among regional groups , the 
President of the twenty -fourth  session of the Conference of the Parties and the fourteenth  
session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol  would come from the Eastern European  States;  
7. Invites Parties to undertake further consult ations  on the hosting of those sessions , 
which will be held  from Monday, 5 November , to Friday, 16 November  2018; 
8. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation , at its forty -fourth  session , to 
consider the issue of the host of the twenty -fourth  session of the Conference of the Parties 
and the fourteenth  session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  and to recommend a draft decision on this matter for 
consideration and adoption by the Confere nce of the Parties at its twenty -second  session;  
II. Calendar of meet ings of the Convention and Kyoto Protocol 
bodies  
9. Takes note that, as recommended by the Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its 
fortieth session,1 future May/June sessions of the subsidiary  bodies should commence on a 
Monday , and that, in order to enhance efficiency and time management, work should be 
completed one day earlier than previously, so as to finish the sessions on the Thursday of 
the second week, and that all meetings at  those  sessions taking place on the Saturday should 
be completed by midday in order to enhance the efficiency, time liness and transparency of 
the work;  
10. Decides  to adopt the following dates for the sessional periods in 2020 :  
(a) First sessional period: Monday, 1 June , to Thursday, 11 June;  
(b) Second sessional period: Monday, 9 November , to Friday, 20 November.  
10th plenary meeting  
10 December 2015  
                                                           
 1 FCCC/SBI/2014/8, paragraphs 212 and 213.  FCCC/CP/2015/10/Add.3  
 35 Resolution 1/CP.21  
  Expression of gratitude to the Government of the French 
Republic  and the people of the city of Paris  
Draft resolution submitted by Morocco  
The Conference of the Parties and the Conference of the Parties se rving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol , 
Having met  in Paris from 30 November to 11 December 2015 at  the invitation of the 
Government of the French Republic,  
1. Express  their profound gratitude  to the Government of the French Republic  for 
having made it possible for the twenty -first session of the Conference of the Parties and the 
eleventh session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Kyoto Protocol to be held in Paris;  
2. Request  the Government of the French Republic  to convey to the city and people of 
Paris the gratitude of the Conference of the Parties and the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol for the hospitality and warmth 
extended to the partic ipants.  
11th plenary meeting  
13 December 2015  
     
GE.17 -01417(E)  

Conference of the Parties  
  Report of the Conference of the Parties on its twenty -second 
session, held in Marrakech from 7 to 18 November 2016  
 Addendum  
 Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -
second session  
Contents  
  Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties  
Decision   Page 
  1/CP.22  Prepa rations for the entry into force of the Paris Agreement and the first session  
of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the  
Paris Agreement  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........   2 
  2/CP.22  Paris Committee on Capacity -building  ................................ ................................ ......  5 
  3/CP.22  Warsaw International  Mechanism for Loss and Damage  associated with  
 Climate Change Impacts  ................................ ................................ ............................   8 
  4/CP.22  Review of the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated  
with Climate Change Impacts  ................................ ................................ ....................   10 
  5/CP.22  Review and r eport of the Adaptation Committee  ................................ ......................   12 
  6/CP.22  National adaptation plans  ................................ ................................ ...........................   14 
  7/CP.22  Long -term climate finance  ................................ ................................ .........................   16 
  8/CP.22  Report of the Standing Committee on Finance  ................................ ..........................   19 
  9/CP.22  Terms of reference for the review of the functions of the  
 Standing Committee on Finance  ................................ ................................ ................   32 
  10/CP.22  Report  of the Green Climate Fund to the Conference of the Parties and  
 guidance to the Green Climate Fund  ................................ ................................ .........   35 
  11/CP.22  Report of the Global Environment Facility to the Conference of the Parties and  
 guidance to the Global Environment Facility  ................................ ............................   38 
  12/CP.22  Sixth review of the Financial Mechanism  ................................ ................................ ..  41 
  13/CP.22  Initiation of a process to identify the information to be provided by Parties in  
accordance with Article 9, paragraph 5, of the Paris Agreement  ...............................   45  United Nations  FCCC /CP/2016/ 10/Add.1  
 
 
 
  
Distr.: General  
31 January 2017  
 
Original: English  
FCCC/CP/2016/10/Add.1  
2 Decision 1/CP.22  
  Preparations for the entry into force of the Paris Agreement 
and the first session of the Conference of the Parties serving 
as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
 The Conference of the Parties,  
Recalling  the Paris Agreement, adopted under the Convention,  
Also recalling decision 1/CP.21,  
Underscoring the importance of inclusiveness, transparency and openness in the 
completion of the work programme resulting from the relevant requests contained in 
decision 1/CP.21,  
Stressing the urgency for the completion of the work programme under the Paris 
Agreement  resulting from the relevant requests contained in section III of decision 1/CP.21 
in order to accelerate its implementation , 
Recognizing  the need for a meaningful and successful outcome of the work related 
to the implementation of the Paris Agreement,  
I. Entry into force and signature of the Paris Agreement  
1. Welcomes  the entry into force of the Paris Agreement on 4 November 2016;  
2. Also welcomes the signature of the Paris Agreement by almost all Parties to the 
Convention;  
3. Congratulates  Parties that have ratif ied, accepted or approved the Paris Agreement 
and invites  those that have not done so to deposit their instruments of ratification, 
acceptance, approval or accession, where appropriate, with the Depositary as soon as 
possible;  
4. Expresses its appreciation to  the Secretary -General of the United Nations for 
convening the historic high -level signing ceremony for the Paris Agreement on 22 April 
2016, on which occasion 175 Parties signed the Paris Agreement and 15 Parties deposited 
their instruments of ratificatio n, acceptance or approval with the Depositary;  
5. Also expresses  its appreciation to the Secretary -General of the United Nations for 
convening the special high -level event on the ratification of the Paris Agreement on 21 
September 2016, on which occasion 31 Parties deposited their instruments of ratification, 
acceptance or approval with the Depositary;  
II. Completion of the work programme under the Paris 
Agreement  
6. Takes note  of the reports of the subsidiary bodies, the operating entities of the 
Financial Mechani sm and the constituted bodies on progress in the implementation of the 
work programme resulting from the relevant requests contained in decision 1/CP.21 in 
accordance with their respective mandates;  FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.1  
 3 7. Also takes note  of the invitation from the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its first session to continue to oversee the 
implementation of the work programme under the Paris Agreement described in decision 
1/CMA.1, paragraphs 5 –7,1 in accordance with the a rrangements contained in decision 
1/CP.21;  
8. Further takes note  of the consideration by the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris 
Agreement of further guidance in relation to the adaptation communication, including, inter 
alia, as a component of nationally dete rmined contributions, referred to in Article 7, 
paragraphs 10 and 11, of the Paris Agreement;  
9. Takes note  of the consideration by the Subsidiary Body for Implementation of the 
development of modalities and procedures for the operation and use of a public r egistry 
referred to in Article 7, paragraph 12, of the Paris Agreement;  
10. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice, the 
Subsidiary Body for Implementation, the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris Agreement 
and the constituted bodie s under the Convention to accelerate their work on the work 
programme described in decision 1/CMA.1, paragraphs 5 –7,2 and to forward the outcomes 
to the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -fourth session (December 2018) at the latest;  
11. Decides  to conven e, at its twenty -third session (November 2017), a joint meeting 
with the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement, at the second part of its first session, to review progress on the implementation 
of the work p rogramme under the Paris Agreement;  
12. Also decides  to conclude the work programme under the Paris Agreement as soon as 
possible and to forward the outcomes, at the latest, to the third part of the first session of the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the  meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement to be 
convened in conjunction with the twenty -fourth session of the Conference of the Parties, for 
its consideration and adoption;  
III. Additional matters relating to the implementation of the 
Paris Agreement  
13. Takes  note of the invitation by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement to request the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris 
Agreement to continue its consideration of possible additional matters relating to the 
implementation of the Paris Agreement and the convening of the first session of the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement;  
                                                           
 1 Decision 1/CMA.1, paragraphs 5 –7, reads:  
 “5. Invites  the Conference of the Parties to continue to oversee the implementation of the work 
programme under the Paris Agreement in accordance with the arrangements contained in decision 
1/CP.21, and to accelerate work and forward the outcomes at the latest to the  third part of the first 
session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement 
to be convened in conjunction with the twenty -fourth session of the Conference of the Parties 
(December 2018) for its considerati on and adoption;  
“6. Also invites  the Conference of the Parties to continue to oversee the work on further guidance in 
relation to the adaptation communication, including, inter alia, as a component of nationally 
determined contributions, referred to in A rticle 7, paragraphs 10 and 11, of the Paris Agreement;  
“7. Further  invites  the Conference of the Parties to continue to oversee the work on the development 
of modalities and procedures for the operation and use of a public registry referred to in Article 7, 
paragraph 12, of the Paris Agreement .”  
 2 As footnote 1  above . FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.1  
4  IV. Adaptation Fund  
14. Requests  the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris Agreement in its consid eration of 
the necessary preparatory work on the Adaptation Fund to address the governance and 
institutional arrangements, safeguards and operating modalities for the Adaptation Fund to 
serve the Paris Agreement;  
15. Invites  Parties to submit, by 31 March 2017 , their views on the governance and 
institutional arrangements, safeguards and operating modalities for the Adaptation Fund to 
serve the Paris Agreement;  
V. 2018 facilitative dialogue  
16. Requests  the President of the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -secon d session, 
in collaboration with the incoming President of the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -
third session, to undertake inclusive and transparent consultations with Parties on the 
organization of the facilitative dialogue referred to in decision  1/CP.21, paragraph 20, 
including during the sessions of the subsidiary bodies to be convened in May 2017 and the 
twenty -third session of the Conference of the Parties, and to jointly report back to the 
Conference of the Parties at its twenty -third session  on the preparations for this dialogue;  
VI. Enhanced action prior to 2020  
17. Congratulates  Parties that have accepted the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto 
Protocol;  
18. Underscores the urgent need for the entry into force of the Doha Amendment and 
calls on those Parties  to the Kyoto Protocol that have not done so to deposit their 
instruments of acceptance with the Depositary as soon as possible;  
19. Commends the high -level champions and welcomes  the Marrake ch Partnership for 
Global Climate Action;3 
20. Takes note of resolutions4 adopted at the thirty -ninth session of the Assembly of the 
International Civil Aviation Organization on 6 October 2016;  
21. Welcomes  the adoption of the Kigali Amendment by the Meeting of the Parties to 
the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Oz one Layer, at its twenty -eighth 
meeting;  
22. Takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the partnership referred to in 
paragraph 19 above and requests  that the actions called for therein to be undertaken by the 
secretariat be subject to the availabi lity of financial resources.  
10th plenary meeting  
18 November 2016  
                                                           
 3 Available at <http://unfccc.int/paris_agreement/items/9951.php>.  
 4 Resolution A39 -2 on climate change entitled “Consolidated statement of continuing ICAO policies 
and practices related to environmental protection – Climate change” and resolution A39 -3 on the 
global market -based measure scheme entitled “Consolidated statement of continuing ICAO policies 
and practices related to environmental protection – Global Market -based Measure (MBM) scheme”.  FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.1  
 5 Decision 2/CP.22  
  Paris Committee on Capacity -building  
The Conference of the Parties,  
 Recalling decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 76, requesting the Subsidiary Body for 
Implementation to develop the terms of reference for the Paris Committee on Capacity -building 
in the context of the third comprehensive review of the implementation of the framewo rk for 
capacity -building in developing countries, with a view to recommending a draft decision on this 
matter for consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -second 
session,  
1. Adopts  the terms of reference for the Paris Committe e on Capacity -building 
established under decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 71, as contained in the annex;  
2. Reaffirms that the objective of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building is to 
address gaps and needs, both current and emerging, in implementing capacity -building in 
developing country Parties and further enhance capacity -building efforts, including with 
regard to coherence and coordination in capacity -building activities under the Convention;  
3. Recalls that the Conference of the Parties, at its twenty -fifth s ession (November 
2019), will review the progress, need for extension, the effectiveness and enhancement of 
the Paris Committee on Capacity -building;  
4. Also recalls that the Paris Committee on Capacity -building will manage and oversee 
the workplan for the pe riod 2016 –2020 outlined in decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 73;  
5. Requests  the Paris Committee on Capacity -building to further develop and adopt its 
working modalities and procedures at its first meeting;  
6. Also requests the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to organize the first meeting 
of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building in conjunction with the forty -sixth sessions of 
the subsidiary bodies (May 2017);  
7. Takes note of the budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by the 
secretariat pursuant  to the provisions contained in the annex;  
8. Requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in the annex be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
  FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.1  
6  Annex  
Terms of reference for the Paris Committee on Capacity -building  
1. In acc ordance with decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 71, the objective of the Paris 
Committee on Capacity -building (hereinafter referred to as the Committee) is to address 
gaps and needs, both current and emerging, in implementing capacity -building in 
developing count ry Parties and further enhancing capacity -building efforts, including with 
regard to coherence and coordination in capacity -building activities under the Convention.  
2. The Committee shall be composed of the following twelve members nominated by 
Parties, who shall serve in their personal capacity:  
(a) Two members from each of the five United Nations regional groups;  
(b) One member from the least developed countries;  
(c) One member from the small island developing States.  
3. Six representatives from bodies established unde r the Convention and from the 
operating entities of the Financial Mechanism will be invited to participate in all the 
meetings of the Committee in line with the annual theme of the Committee.  
4. Members identified in paragraph 2 above shall be nominated by t heir respective 
groups or constituencies and elected by the Conference of the Parties. Groups or 
constituencies are encouraged to nominate members identified in paragraph 2 above to the 
Committee with a view to achieving an appropriate balance of experts r elevant to the aims 
of the Committee, taking into account the goal to achieve gender balance in accordance 
with decisions 36/CP.7 and 23/CP.18.  
5. Members identified in paragraph 2 above shall serve a term of two years and shall 
be eligible to serve a maximum  of two consecutive terms in office. The following rules 
shall apply:  
(a) Half of the members shall be elected initially for a term of three years, and 
half shall be elected for a term of two years;  
(b) Thereafter, the Conference of the Parties shall elect half of the members 
every year for a term of two years.  
6. Representatives identified in paragraph 3 above shall be invited for a term of one 
year.  
7. If a member of the Committee identified in paragraph 2 resigns or is otherwise 
unable to complete the assigned term of office or to perform the functions of that office, the 
Committee may decide, bearing in mind the proximity of the next session of the 
Conference of the Parties, to appoint another member from the same group or constituency 
to replace said member for the  remainder of that member’s mandate, in which case the 
appointment shall count as one term.  
8. The Committee shall elect annually two co -chairs from among its members 
identified in paragraph 2 above to serve for a term of one year each.  
9. If a co -chair is tempo rarily unable to fulfil the obligations of the office, any other 
member identified in paragraph 2 above designated by the Committee shall serve as co -
chair.  FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.1  
 7 10. If a co -chair is unable to complete the term of office, the Committee shall elect a 
replacement fro m among the members identified in paragraph 2 above to complete that 
term of office.  
11. The Committee will meet during annual in -session meetings to be organized by the 
Subsidiary Body for Implementation.  
12. The Committee shall decide on its annual focus area or  theme, recalling decision 
1/CP.21, paragraph 74, related to enhanced technical exchange on capacity -building, with 
the purpose of maintaining up -to-date knowledge on the successes and challenges in 
building capacity effectively in a particular area, and w ill report on this work in its annual 
technical progress report.  
13. The Committee shall further develop and adopt its working modalities and 
procedures at its first meeting, and revise them as necessary.  
14. The Committee may invite other bodies established unde r the Convention and the 
operating entities of the Financial Mechanism of the Convention to identify representatives 
to collaborate, as appropriate, on specific activities related to its work.  
15. The Committee may engage with and draw upon the expertise from relevant 
institutions, organizations, frameworks, networks and centres outside the Convention, 
including at the intergovernmental, regional, national and subnational levels, where 
appropriate.  
16. The meetings will be open to attendance by Parties and admitted  observer 
organizations, except where otherwise decided by the Committee, with a view to 
encouraging a balanced regional representation of observers.  
17. The Committee will prepare annual technical progress reports on its work for 
submission to the Conference of the Parties through the Subsidiary Body of 
Implementation, and will make these reports available at the sessions of the Subsidiary 
Body for Implementation coinciding with the sessions of the Conference of the Parties.  
18. The proceedings and outputs of the Committee shall be made publicly available on 
the UNFCCC website.  
19. The secretariat will support and facilitate the work of the Committee subject to the 
availability of resources.  
20. The working language of the Committee will be English.  
21. Members of the Committe e shall reach their decisions by consensus.  
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2016FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.1  
8  Decision 3/CP.22  
  Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage 
associated with Climate Change Impacts  
 The Conference of the Parties , 
 Recalling decisions 3/CP.18, 2/CP.19, 2/CP.20, 1/CP.21 and 2/CP.21 and the Paris 
Agreement,  
 Noting with appreciation  the significant progress in advancing the implementation 
of the initial two -year workplan of the Executive Committee of the Warsaw Interna tional 
Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts, and the 
mandates ensuing from decision 1/CP.21, paragraphs 48 and 49,  
 Noting that while significant progress has been made in laying the foundation for 
work on loss and damage, o wing to the late nomination of members, work remains to be 
carried out,  
 Appreciating  the work of the Executive Committee of the Warsaw International 
Mechanism in developing the indicative framework for its five -year rolling workplan,  
 Recalling the areas  of cooperation and facilitation to enhance understanding, action 
and support as referred to in Article 8, paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreement,  
 Recognizing  the catalytic and pioneering nature of the Warsaw International 
Mechanism in promoting the implemen tation of approaches to address loss and damage 
associated with the adverse effects of climate change in a comprehensive, integrated and 
coherent manner,  
1. Welcomes the report of the Executive Committee of the Warsaw International 
Mechanism for Loss and Dama ge associated with Climate Change Impacts,1 and progress 
made in implementing its initial two -year workplan, including in enhancing understanding, 
action and support, in particular the establishment of the expert group on non -economic 
losses, the technical  expert group on comprehensive risk management and transformational 
approaches and the task force on displacement, and in outreach and information sharing;  
2. Requests  the Executive Committee to continue to implement activities from its 
initial two -year workp lan;2 
3. Approves  the indicative framework for the five -year rolling workplan of the 
Executive Committee3 as the basis for developing corresponding activities, starting at the 
first meeting of the Executive Committee in 2017, taking into account relevant inpu ts 
provided by Parties and relevant organizations;  
4. Requests the Executive Committee to include in its five -year rolling workplan a 
strategic workstream to guide the implementation of the Warsaw International 
Mechanism’s function of enhancing action and su pport, including finance, technology and 
capacity -building, to address loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate 
change, as provided for in decision 2/CP.19;  
                                                           
 1 FCCC/SB/2016/3.   
 2 FCCC/SB/2014/4, annex II.  
 3 Contained in document FCCC/SB/2016/3, annex I.  FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.1  
 9 5. Invites Parties and relevant organizations to submit views and relevant input s on 
possible activities under each strategic workstream as contained in the indicative 
framework for the five -year rolling workplan of the Executive Committee, with a focus on 
workstreams (e), (f) and (g), by 28 February 2017;4 
6. Requests  the Executive Comm ittee to include in its five -year rolling workplan 
relevant work for advancing the operationalization of the mandates ensuing from decision 
1/CP.21, paragraphs 48 and 49;  
7. Notes  that the Executive Committee will evaluate progress towards implementing its 
five-year rolling workplan on an interim basis, as appropriate;  
8. Invites  constituted bodies under the Convention, as appropriate, as those bodies 
undertake their work, to continue or to initiate, as appropriate, the integration of efforts to 
avert, minimize and address loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of cli mate 
change in particularly vulnerable developing countries, vulnerable populations and the 
ecosystems that they depend on;  
9. Encourages  Parties to incorporate or continue to incorporate the consideration of 
extreme events and slow onset events, non -economic  losses, displacement, migration and 
human mobility, and comprehensive risk management into relevant planning and action, as 
appropriate, and to encourage bilateral and multilateral entities to support such efforts;  
10. Invites  United Nations and other relevan t institutions, specialized agencies and 
entities, the research community and the private sector, as appropriate, to strengthen 
cooperation and collaboration, including through partnerships, with the Executive 
Committee on topics relevant to addressing los s and damage associated with the adverse 
effects of climate change, including extreme events and slow onset events;  
11. Reiterates  its encouragement to Parties to make available sufficient resources for the 
successful and timely implementation of the work of t he Executive Committee.  
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2016
                                                           
 4 Parties should submit their views via the submission portal at <http://www.unfccc.int/5900>.  
Observers and other stakeholders should e -mail their  submissions to <secretariat@unfccc.int>.  FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.1  
10  Decision 4/CP.22  
  Review of the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and 
Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts  
 The Conference of the Parties,  
 Recalling that decision 2/CP.19 established the Warsaw International Mechanism to 
address loss and damage associated with impacts of climate change, including extreme  
events and slow onset events, in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to  the 
adverse effects of climate change, as well as its role of promoting the implementation of 
approaches to address this issue in a comprehensive, integrated and coherent manner,  
 Recognizing  the role of the Executive Committee of the Warsaw International  
Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts in guiding the 
implementation of the functions of the Warsaw International Mechanism,  
 Recalling  that, by decision 2/CP.19, it decided to review the Warsaw International 
Mechanism, inclu ding its structure, mandate and effectiveness, at its twenty -second session, 
with a view to adopting an appropriate decision on the outcome of this review,  
 Also recalling  decisions 3/CP.18, 2/CP.19, 2/CP.20, 1/CP.21 and 2/CP.21 and the 
Paris Agreement, in  particular its Article 8,  
1. Recommends  further guidance relevant to enhancing and strengthening the Warsaw 
International Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts, 
having considered the mandate, structure and effectiveness of the Warsaw International 
Mechanism at the twenty -second session of the Conference of the Parties, as referred to in 
paragraphs 2 –5 below;  
2. Also recommends  that: 
(a) There be a process to periodically review the Warsaw International 
Mechanism and that reviews take p lace no more than five years apart;  
(b) The next review be held in 2019, and that the periodicity of future reviews be 
decided at that time;  
(c) Future reviews of the Warsaw International Mechanism should consider, 
inter alia, progress on the implementation of the  workplan of the Executive Committee of 
the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated with Climate 
Change Impacts as well as its long -term vision that guides ways in which the Warsaw 
International Mechanism may be enhanced and strengthe ned, as appropriate;  
(d) The subsidiary bodies finalize terms of reference for each review of the 
Warsaw International Mechanism at least six months prior to the review being undertaken;  
(e) The subsidiary bodies take into consideration inputs and submissions from  
Parties and relevant organizations, as appropriate, when developing the terms of reference 
referred to in paragraph 2(d) above;  
(f) As an input to the review in 2019, a technical paper be prepared by the 
secretariat elaborating the sources of financial suppor t, as provided through the Financial 
Mechanism, for addressing loss and damage as described in relevant decisions, as well as 
modalities for accessing such support;  FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.1  
 11 (g) The technical paper referred to in paragraph 2(f) above include an elaboration 
of finance a vailable for addressing loss and damage as described in relevant decisions, 
outside the Financial Mechanism, as well as the modalities for accessing it;  
(h) The secretariat be assisted by the Executive Committee of the Warsaw 
International Mechanism in determining the scope of the technical paper referred to in 
paragraph 2(f) above, with a view to making the paper available to Parties by the fiftieth 
sessions of the subsidiary bodies (June 2019) for consideration in the review of the Warsaw 
International  Mechanism;  
3. Recognizes  that the Executive Committee may enhance its effectiveness by 
prioritizing activities in thematic areas for further work;  
4. Recommends  that the following may advance the work of the Executive Committee:  
(a) Enhancing collaboration, coopera tion and partnerships with bodies, entities 
and work programmes, including the Paris Committee on Capacity -building, within and 
outside the Convention;  
(b) Considering the establishment of, as appropriate, additional expert groups, 
subcommittees, panels, thema tic advisory groups or focused working groups to assist it in 
conducting its work and supporting its efforts to enhance action and support for loss and 
damage as provided for in decision 2/CP.19, paragraph 5(c)(i –iii); 
(c) Improving access to, and interaction with, relevant scientific and technical 
panels, bodies and expertise available to the Warsaw International Mechanism, its 
Executive Committee and substructures over time, including by, inter alia, inviting relevant 
organizations at all levels and scientifi c research organizations with expertise in science 
relevant to loss and damage to ensure that the best available science is highlighted in the 
work of the Warsaw International Mechanism;  
(d) Inviting interested Parties to establish a loss and damage contact po int 
through their respective UNFCCC national focal point, with a view to enhancing the 
implementation of approaches to address loss and damage associated with the adverse 
impacts of climate change at the national level;  
5. Invites  the Paris Committee on Capac ity-building, within the scope of its workplan, 
to consider a future theme on addressing loss and damage;  
6. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
9th plenary  meeting  
17 November 2016  FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.1  
12  Decision 5/CP.22  
  Review and re port of the Adaptation Committee  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling its decision to review the progress and performance of the Adaptation 
Committee at its twenty -second session with a view to adopting an appropriate decision on 
the outcome of this review,1 
Also recalling  its requests for the Adaptation Committee to undertake activities in 
support of the Paris Agreement and the timing of their delivery,2 
Acknowledging  that the Adaptation Committee is in the process of implementing its 
20162018 workplan and its significant workload,  
Having reviewed  the progress and performance of the Adaptation Committee,  
1. Welcomes  the report of the Adaptation Committee3 and the revised workplan of the 
Adaptation Committee for the period 2016−2018 contained in that report;  
2. Also welcomes the progress made by the Adaptation Committee in the 
implementation of its workplan, including progress reported on enhancing overall 
coher ence in relation to adaptation and the relevant mandates contained in decision 
1/CP.21, and on its efforts to enhance its performance with the overall aim of enhancing 
adaptation action;  
3. Notes with appreciation the ongoing and planned collaboration between  the 
Adaptation Committee and other constituted bodies and institutional arrangements under 
the Convention, including the Least Developed Countries Expert Group, the Nairobi work 
programme on impacts, vulnerability and adaptation to climate change, the Tec hnology 
Executive Committee, the Standing Committee on Finance, the Executive Committee of the 
Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated with Climate Change 
Impacts, the Adaptation Fund, the Global Environment Facility, the Green Climat e Fund, 
the Climate Technology Centre and Network and the Paris Committee on Capacity -
building, in order to enhance the process to formulate and implement national adaptation 
plans and actions, the implementation of the relevant mandates contained in decis ion 
1/CP.21 and access by developing country Parties to adaptation finance, in particular from 
the Green Climate Fund, as appropriate;  
4. Requests  the Adaptation Committee to make use of additional modalities for 
responding to the relevant mandates contained in decision 1/CP.21, including engaging 
with the Nairobi work programme and its partner organizations, research institutions and 
other institutional arrangements outside the Convention;  
5. Welcomes  the two technical expert meetings on adaptation, which were o rganized as 
part of the technical examination process on adaptation,4 as well as the technical paper on 
opportunities and options for enhancing adaptation actions and supporting their 
implementation, reducing vulnerability and mainstreaming adaptation;5 
                                                           
 1 Decision 2/CP.17, paragraph 119.  
 2 Decision 1/CP.21, paragraphs 41, 42, 45, 124 and 126.  
 3 FCCC/SB/2016/2.  
 4 See < unfccc.int/9542 >. 
 5 FCCC/TP/2016/6.  FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.1  
 13 6. Also welcomes  the establishment of the Adaptation Committee’s working group on 
the technical examination process on adaptation, consisting of members of the Standing 
Committee on Finance, the Technology Executive Committee, the Least Developed 
Countries Expe rt Group and observer constituencies;  
7. Requests  the Adaptation Committee, in conducting the technical examination 
process on adaptation, to accelerate the preparations for the 2017 technical expert meetings 
on adaptation, including the selection of topics;  
8. Also requests  the Adaptation Committee to ens ure that the technical examination 
process on adaptation meets its objective of identifying concrete opportunities for 
strengthening resilience, reducing vulnerabilities and increasing the understanding and 
implementation of adaptation action, including th rough technical papers;  
9. Concludes  the review of the progress and performance of the Adaptation Committee 
on the basis of the information contained in its annual reports prepared for consideration by 
the Conference of the Parties, through the subsidiary bod ies, in the period 2012−2016;  
10. Requests the Adaptation Committee, as an outcome of this review, to continue with 
the implementation of its revised workplan, in particular by giving priority to the activities 
in support of the Paris Agreement, and to seek fu rther ways to enhance its progress, 
effectiveness and performance;  
11. Decides  to review the progress, effectiveness and performance of the Adaptation 
Committee again at the twenty -seventh session of the Conference of the Parties, with a 
view to adopting an ap propriate decision on the outcome of that review;  
12. Invites Parties to submit via the submission portal,6 no later than three months prior 
to the twenty -seventh session of the Conference of the Parties, their views on the progress, 
effectiveness and perform ance of the Adaptation Committee and on the review process 
referred to in paragraph 11 above with a view to informing that process;  
13. Also invites  relevant institutional arrangements under the Convention and non -Party 
stakeholders to further strengthen finan cial and technical support and capacity -building, and 
the consideration of projects, tools and methodologies related to enhancing economic or 
livelihood diversification, especially for developing countries that are particularly 
vulnerable to the adverse ef fects of climate change;  
14. Notes with concern  the shortfall in resources available to the Adaptation Committee, 
the need for supplementary financial resources and the estimated budgetary implications of 
the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat pur suant to decision 1/CP.21;7 
15. Encourages  Parties to make available sufficient resources for the successful and 
timely implementation of the three -year workplan of the Adaptation Committee;  
16. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decis ion, in particular in 
support of the revised workplan of the Adaptation Committee, be undertaken subject to the 
availability of financial resources.  
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2016
                                                           
 6 <unfccc.int/5900>.  
 7 Information on the status of contributions is available in document FCCC/SBI/2016/INF.19 and 
information on budget performance in document FCCC/SBI/2016/13.  FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.1  
14  Decision 6/CP.22  
  National adaptation plans  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  decisions 1/CP.16, 3/CP.17, 5/CP.17, 12/CP.18, 18/CP.19, 3/CP.20, 
1/CP.21 and 4/CP.21,  
Welcoming the progress made by the Adaptation Committee and the Least 
Developed Countries Expert Group in the fulfilment o f their respective mandates relating 
to providing information on accessing funding from the Green Climate Fund for the 
process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans,  
Noting the progress made by many developing country Parties in the process to 
formulate and implement national adaptation plans,1 
Also noting that developing country Parties continue to face challenges in accessing 
funding from the Green Climate Fund for the formulation and implementation of national 
adaptation plans,  
Further not ing the emerging needs for technical guidance and support for the 
implementation of national adaptation plans,  
1. Welcomes  the submission by Brazil, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Sri Lanka and the 
Sudan of their national adaptation plans via NAP Central;2  
2. Encourag es other Parties to forward relevant outputs and outcomes related to the 
process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans to NAP Central;3 
3. Welcomes  the successful conduct of the NAP Expo that took place from 11 to 15 
July 2016 in Bonn, Germany,  and the active participation therein of developing countries 
and other relevant stakeholders;  
4. Notes with appreciation  the decision of the Board of the Green Climate Fund at its 
13th meeting that approved up to USD 3 million per country through the Green C limate 
Fund Readiness and Preparatory Support Programme to support the formulation of national 
adaptation plans and/or other national adaptation planning processes;4 
5. Appreciates the progress made by the Green Climate Fund in expediting support for 
the form ulation of national adaptation plans and looks forward  to how the Green Climate 
Fund will support the subsequent implementation of policies, projects and programmes of 
developing country Parties as requested in decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 46;  
6. Invites  devel oping country Parties to access the funding referred to in paragraph 4 
above in order to advance the formulation of their national adaptation plans;  
7. Requests  the Adaptation Committee and the Least Developed Countries Expert 
Group to continue their respecti ve engagement with the Green Climate Fund and to 
continue to include information on that engagement, including on ways to enhance the 
process to access support for the formulation and implementation of national adaptation 
                                                           
 1 See documents FCCC/SBI/2016/18 and FCCC/SBI/2016/INF.11.  
 2 <http://www4.unfccc.int/nap/Pages/national -adaptation -plans.aspx> .  
 3 As invited in decision 3/CP.20, paragraph 9.    
 4 Green Climate Fund Board decision B.13/09, paragraph (e). Available at 
<http://www.greenclimate.fund/boardroom/on -record/documents>.   FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.1  
 15 plans, in their reports for consid eration by the Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its 
forty -seventh session (November 2017) with a view to making recommendations to the 
Conference of the Parties at its twenty -third session (November 2017), as appropriate;  
8. Welcomes  the support provided  by the Global Environment Facility for the process 
to formulate and implement national adaptation plans;  
9. Notes with concern that 12 funding proposals seeking to support elements of 
countries’ work in the process to formulate and implement national adaptat ion plans were 
technically cleared by the Global Environment Facility but, as at 10 November 2016, were 
awaiting funding under the Least Developed Countries Fund;  
10. Encourages  developed country Parties to contribute to the Least Developed 
Countries Fund and the Special Climate Change Fund and invites  additional voluntary 
financial contributions to the Least Developed Countries Fund, the Special Climate Change 
Fund and other funds under the Financial Mechanism, as appropriate, recognizing the 
importance of the  process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans;  
11. Notes with appreciation that most countries that have embarked on the process to 
formulate and implement national adaptation plans are supported either by bilateral and 
multilateral agencies or  by domestic resources;  
12. Invites  Parties to continue to provide information on progress made towards the 
achievement of the objectives of the process to formulate and implement national 
adaptation plans and on experience, best practices, lessons learned, ga ps and needs, and 
support provided and received in the process to formulate and implement national 
adaptation plans via the online questionnaire5 on NAP Central;  
13. Decides  to change the submission deadline referred to in decision 4/CP.21, 
paragraph  12(a), to  4 October 2017.  
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2016
                                                           
 5 Available at < http://www4.unfccc.int/nap/Pages/assessingprogress.aspx>.   FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.1  
16  Decision 7/CP.22  
  Long -term climate finance  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling Articles 4 and 11 of the Convention,  
Also recalling decision 1/CP.16, paragraphs 2, 4 and 97 –101, as well as decisions 
1/CP.17, 2/CP.17, paragraphs 126 –132, 4/CP.18, 3/CP.19, 5/CP.20, 1/CP.21 and 5/CP.21,  
1. Notes with appreciation  the 2016 biennial assessment and overview of climate 
finance flows of the Standing Commi ttee on Finance, in particular its key findings and 
recommendations, highlighting the increase of climate finance flows from developed 
country Parties to developing country Parties;1 
2. Welcomes with appreciation the submission made by developed country Parti es in 
response to decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 114, and takes note  of the information contained 
therein;2  
3. Welcomes  the progress by developed country Parties towards reaching the goal of 
jointly mobilizing USD 100 billion annually by 2020, in accordance wit h decision 1/CP.16, 
and urges  developed country Parties to continue to scale up mobilized climate finance 
towards this goal;  
4. Also welcomes  the progress made and requests  Parties to continue to enhance their 
enabling environments and policy frameworks to fa cilitate the mobilization and effective 
deployment of climate finance in accordance with decision 3/CP.19;  
5. Urges developed country Parties to continue their efforts to channel a substantial 
share of public climate funds to adaptation activities and to stri ve to achieve a greater 
balance between finance for mitigation and for adaptation, recognizing the importance of 
adaptation finance;  
6. Notes with appreciation  the summary report on the 2016 in -session workshop on 
long-term climate finance, which focused on t he issues of adaptation finance, needs for 
support to developing country Parties, and cooperation on enhanced enabling environments 
and support for readiness activities;3 
7. Notes the increase in adaptation finance to date as identified in the 2016 biennial 
assessment and overview of climate finance flows, and the need to continue efforts to 
significantly scale up adaptation finance, while stressing the need to strive for a greater 
balance between adaptation and mitigation finance, and invites  Parties and rele vant 
institutions to consider the key messages from the in -session workshop referred to in 
paragraph 6 above, including that:  
(a) Country -driven processes for the assessment of adaptation needs in 
developing countries are fundamental for scaling up adaptation finance;  
(b) The nationally determined contributions and adaptation communications 
could constitute a good opportunity for supporting the scaling up of adaptation finance;  
                                                           
 1 See document FCCC/CP/2016/8, annex II.  
 2 Available at 
<http://www4.unfccc.int/Submissions/Lists/OSPSubmissionUpload/261_295_131233554162587561 -
Roadmap%20to%20the%20US$100bn%20%28UNFCCC%29.pdf >. 
 3 FCCC/CP/2016/5.  FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.1  
 17 (c) The role of the private sector in adaptation finance needs to be further 
enhanced;  
(d) Access to adaptation finance remains a challenge, particularly for small 
island developing States and the least developed countries;  
(e) Better information needs to be generated for more efficient planning, 
including through enhanced tracking of adaptation fl ows;  
(f) Strengthening national public financing management systems is vital to 
support countries to effectively manage, track and monitor climate finance;  
(g) Maximizing the effectiveness of adaptation finance is important in ensuring 
that limited financial reso urces achieve the greatest possible impact;  
8. Also notes the progress made to date in enhancing access to finance by developing 
countries, while further emphasizing  the continued challenges that developing countries 
face in this regard, in particular those w ith capacity constraints, and further encourages  
Parties and relevant institutions to continue working in this regard in order to enhance 
access to finance from a wide variety of sources, public and private, bilateral and 
multilateral;  
9. Welcomes the biennial submissions received to date from developed country Parties 
on updated strategies and approaches for scaling up climate finance from 2014 to 2020 in 
accordance with decision 3/CP.19, paragraph 10;  
10. Requests the secretariat, in line with decision 5/ CP.20, paragraph 11, to prepare a 
compilation and synthesis of the biennial submissions referred to in paragraph 9 above in 
order to inform the in -session workshops referred to in paragraph 12 below;  
11. Welcomes the submission of the first biennial update rep orts submitted by 34 
developing country Parties to date  and invites  developing country Parties that have not 
already done so to submit their biennial update reports as soon as possible, recalling 
decision 2/CP.17, paragraph 41(a), which states that, consis tent with their capabilities and 
the level of support provided for reporting, they should submit their first biennial update 
reports by December 2014;  
12. Decides  that the in -session workshops on long -term climate finance in 2017 and 
2018 will, with a view to scaling up climate finance for mitigation and adaptation, focus on 
experiences and lessons learned from:  
(a) Articulating and translating needs identified in country -driven processes into 
projects and programmes;  
(b) Roles of policies and enabling environments f or mitigation and adaptation 
finance;  
(c) Facilitating enhanced access;  
13. Requests  the secretariat to organize the in -session workshops referred to in 
paragraph 12 above and to prepare summary reports on these workshops for consideration 
by the Conference of th e Parties;  
14. Also requests the secretariat to continue to ensure that the workshops are well -
balanced by, inter alia, inviting both public and private sector actors to attend them and 
summarizing all views expressed at the workshops in a fair and balanced ma nner;  
15. Decides  that the third biennial high -level ministerial dialogue on climate finance, to 
be convened in accordance with decision 3/CP.19, will be informed by the reports on the 
in-session workshops on long -term climate finance and the 2018 biennial ass essment and 
overview of climate finance flows;  FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.1  
18  16. Requests the Presidency of the Conference of the Parties, with the support of the 
secretariat, to prepare a summary of the third biennial high -level ministerial dialogue on 
climate finance for consideration by  the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -fifth session 
(November 2019);  
17. Welcomes the second biennial high -level ministerial dialogue on climate finance, 
convened in accordance with decision 3/CP.19, and looks forward  to the summary of the 
Presidency of  the Conference of the Parties on the deliberations of this dialogue . 
10th plenary meeting  
18 November 2016FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.1  
 19 Decision 8/CP.22  
  Report of the Standing Committee on Finance  
The Conference of the Parties,  
Recalling Articles 4 and 11 of the Convention , 
Also recalling  decisions 1/CP.16, paragraph 112, and 2/CP.17, paragraphs 120 
and 121, as well as decisions 5/CP.18, 7/CP.19, 6/CP.20 and 6/CP.21,  
1. Welcomes with appreciation  the report of the Standing Committee on Finance to the 
Conference of the Parties at its twenty -second session, taking note of the recommendations 
contained therein;1 
2. Endorses the workplan of the Standing Committee on Finance for 2017;2 
3. Notes  the 2016 bien nial assessment and overview of climate finance flows while 
particularly welcoming the summary and recommendations by the Standing Committee on 
Finance as contained in the annex;3 
4. Expresses its appreciation for the financial contributions provided by the 
Governments of Belgium, Norway, Sweden and Switzerland as well as the European 
Commission to support the work of the Standing Committee on Finance;  
5. Requests the Standing Committee on Finance, in fulfilling its function on the 
measurement, reporting and veri fication of support, and in the context of its existing 
workplan, to cooperate with relevant stakeholders and experts and to consider ongoing 
work under the Convention and further action envisaged under the Paris Agreement;  
6. Welcomes the 2016 forum of the S tanding Committee on Finance on the topic of 
financial instruments that address the risks of loss and damage associated with the adverse 
effects of climate change;  
7. Takes note  of the summary report on the 2016 forum, including the 
recommendations and follow -up activities of the Standing Committee on Finance and 
invites  the Standing Committee on Finance to follow up on the recommendations in its 
2017 workplan;4  
8. Expresses its gratitude  to the Government of the Philippines and the Asian 
Development Bank for th eir support in ensuring the success of the 2016 forum of the 
Standing Committee on Finance;  
9. Invites the Standing Committee on Finance to continue its deliberations on the topic 
of its 2017 forum at its first meeting in 2017;  
10. Reiterates  that the Standing Co mmittee on Finance will integrate financing for 
forests -related considerations into its 2017 workplan, where appropriate, and continue work 
on this matter in the context of the overall issue of improving coherence and coordination 
in the delivery of climat e change financing, taking into account all relevant decisions on 
forests;  
                                                           
 1 FCCC/CP/2016/8.  
 2 As contained in document FCCC/CP/2016/8, annex VIII.  
 3 See < http://unfccc.int/8034.php >.  
 4 See document FCCC/CP/2016/8, annex III, paragraphs 68 and 69.  FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.1  
20  11. Requests the Standing Committee on Finance to report to the Conference of the 
Parties at its twenty -third session (November 2017) on the progress made in the 
implementation of its w orkplan;  
12. Also requests the Standing Committee on Finance to consider the guidance provided 
to it in other relevant decisions of the Conference of the Parties.  FCCC/CP/2016/10 /Add.1  
 21 Annex  
 Summary and recommendations by the Standing Committee on 
Finance on the 2016 biennial assessment and overview of climate 
finance flows  
[English only]  
A. Context and mandates  
1. The Standing Committee on Finance (SCF) as sists the Conference of the Parties 
(COP) in exercising its functions with respect to the Financial Mechanism of the 
Convention, including, inter alia, in terms of measurement, reporting and verification of 
support provided to developing country Parties, t hrough activities such as the biennial 
assessment and overview of climate finance flows.1  
2. Subsequent to the 2014 biennial assessment and overview of climate finance flows, 
the COP requested the SCF to consider: the relevant work of other bodies and entiti es on 
measurement, reporting and verification of support and the tracking of climate finance;2 
ways of strengthening methodologies for reporting climate finance;3 and ongoing technical 
work on operational definitions of climate finance, including private f inance mobilized by 
public interventions, to assess how adaptation and mitigation needs can most effectively be 
met by climate finance.4 It also requested the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris 
Agreement, when developing the modalities, procedures and guide lines for the 
transparency framework for action and support, to consider, inter alia, information in the 
biennial assessment and overview of climate finance flows and other reports of the SCF and 
other relevant bodies under the Convention.  
3. The 2016 bienni al assessment and overview of climate finance flows outlines 
improvements made and identifies areas for further improvements in the UNFCCC 
reporting guidelines and formats for developed and developing countries and for 
improvements in climate finance track ing and reporting of data producers and aggregators. 
The biennial assessment and overview of climate finance flows presents estimates of flows 
from developed to developing countries, available information on domestic climate finance 
and South –South coopera tion, as well as the other climate -related flows that constitute 
global total climate finance flows. It then considers the implications of these flows, 
including composition, purpose and emergent trends relevant to the UNFCCC objectives, 
including the new goals set out in the Paris Agreement.  
4. The 2016 biennial assessment and overview of climate finance flows comprises this 
summary and recommendations, and a technical report. The summary and 
recommendations was prepared by the SCF. The technical report was prepared by experts 
under the guidance of the SCF, and draws on information and data from a range of sources. 
It was subject to extensive stakeholder input and expert review, but remains a product of 
the external experts.  
                                                           
 1 Decision 2/CP.17, paragraph 121(f).   
 2 Decision 1/CP.18, paragraph 71.   
 3 Decision 5/CP.18, paragraph 11.   
 4 Decision 3/CP. 19, paragraph 11.   FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.1  
22  B. Challenges and limitations  
5. The 20 16 biennial assessment and overview of climate finance flows presents a 
picture of climate finance to the extent possible. Due diligence has been undertaken to 
utilize the best information available from the most credible sources. Challenges were 
neverthel ess encountered in collecting, aggregating and analysing information from diverse 
sources. The limited clarity with regard to the use of different definitions of climate finance 
limits comparability of data.  
6. There are uncertainties associated with each so urce of data, and these have different 
underlying causes. Uncertainties are related to the data on domestic public investments, 
resulting from the lack of geographic coverage and differences in the way methods are 
applied, significant changes in the method s for estimating energy efficiency every few 
years and the lack of available data on sustainable private transport and other key sectors. 
Uncertainties also arise from the lack of procedures and data to determine private climate 
finance, methods for estima ting adaptation finance, differences in the assumptions of 
underlying formulas to attribute finance from multilateral development banks (MDBs) to 
developed countries, the classification of data as ‘green finance’ and incomplete data on 
non-concessional flo ws. 
7. The limitations outlined above need to be taken into consideration when deriving 
conclusions and policy implications from this biennial assessment and overview of climate 
finance flows. The SCF will contribute, through its activities, to the progressiv e 
improvement of the measurement, reporting and verification of climate finance information 
in future biennial assessments and overviews of climate finance flows, to help address these 
challenges.  
C. Key findings  
1. Methodological issues relating to measurement, reporting and verification of public 
and private climate finance  
Improvements made in tracking and reporting of climate finance since the 2014 biennial 
assessment and overview of climate finance flows  
8. Followi ng the recommendations made by the SCF in the 2014 biennial assessment 
and overview of climate finance flows, the 2016 biennial assessment and overview of 
climate finance flows identifies the improvements listed below in the tracking and reporting 
of infor mation on climate finance:  
Developed countries  
(a) Enabling Parties to provide additional information on their underlying 
definitions, methodologies and assumptions used, including on how they have identified 
finance as being “climate -specific”, as well as m aking these data more accessible to the 
public and recipient Parties, thereby enhancing consistency and transparency;  
(b) Improving guidance on application of the Rio Markers for adaptation and 
mitigation and adjustments to the Rio Marker definitions for adap tation;  
International organizations  
(c) Making available MDB and multilateral climate fund activity -level data 
through the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the Organisation for Economic 
Co-operation and Development (OECD);  FCCC/CP/2016/10 /Add.1  
 23 (d) Applying common principles  for tracking mitigation and adaptation finance 
by MDBs and International Development Finance Club (IDFC) members;  
(e) Making available data on climate co -financing flows through utilization of a 
joint methodology for tracking public and private climate co -finance by a consortium of 
seven MDBs.  
Insights into reporting by developed countries and developing countries  
9. The current biennial report (BR) guidelines5 were designed to accommodate 
reporting on a wide range of climate finance instruments and activities. This required a 
reporting architecture that was flexible enough to accommodate a diversity of reporting 
approaches. In some cases, limited clarity with regard to the diversity in reporting 
approaches limits comparability in climate finance reporting. Furth er improvements in 
reporting guidelines and formats are needed to enhance transparency on the approaches 
used by individual Parties and to enable greater comparability across reporting by Parties.  
10. Current biennial update report (BUR) guidelines6 for report ing by developing 
countries on financial, technical and capacity -building needs and support received do not 
require information on the underlying assumptions, definitions and methodologies used in 
generating the information. Limited institutional capacity to track climate finance received, 
as well as the lack of data, can pose challenges in developing country reporting.  
Insights into broader reporting aspects  
11. Information on domestic climate -related finance is available including through a few 
BURs, Climate  Public Expenditure and Institutional Reviews (CPEIRs) and other 
independent studies. However, such information is difficult to compare.  
12. There is a lack of systematic collection of data on climate -related private finance 
flows globally, due to difficulties  in identifying climate -related finance, restrictions based 
on confidentiality, and conceptual and accounting issues. The primary sources cover mainly 
renewable energy and draw upon industry and sector databases, relying on voluntary 
disclosures. Efforts t o develop methodologies for estimating mobilized private finance by 
public interventions are under way by the OECD DAC and the Research Collaborative on 
Tracking Private Climate Finance.  
13. Ongoing efforts at the international and national levels aimed at im proving climate -
related financial risk disclosures are important for improving the transparency and 
promoting the alignment of finance and investment flows in accordance with Article 2.1(c) 
of the Paris Agreement.  
Insights related to review of climate fina nce information  
14. Practices exist within the UNFCCC to review the information on support provided 
by Parties, including the international assessment and review of BRs and the international 
consultation and analysis of BURs. However, there are no internation ally agreed methods 
for reconciling financial support provided against support received. Also, MDBs and IDFC 
do not have a standard procedure to review their climate finance data. In addition, BRs are 
not reviewed in time for aggregating data for the bienn ial assessment and overview of 
climate finance flows.  
                                                           
 5 Decision 2/CP.17.  
 6 Decision 2/CP.17.  FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.1  
24  2. Overview of current climate finance flows in 2013 –2014  
Flows from developed to developing countries as reported in biennial reports  
15. USD 25.4 billion in 2013 and USD 26.6 billion in 2014 of climate -specific finance 
was reported in BRs, of which USD 23.1 billion in 2013 and USD 23.9 billion in 2014 was 
channelled through bilateral, regional and other channels (see figure 1). This represents an 
increase of about 50 per cent from public finance reported through the same channels in 
20112012.  
Multilateral climate funds  
16. USD 1.9 billion in 2013 and USD 2.5 billion in 2014 was channelled through the 
UNFCCC funds and multilateral climate funds on the basis of their financial reports. 
Although this is a small share of the total climate finance, information on their activities is 
mostly complete.  
Climate finance from multilateral development banks  
17. Climate finance provided by MDBs to developing countries from their own 
resources was reported as USD 20. 8 billion in 2013 and USD 25.7 billion in 2014. The 
methodology used in the 2014 biennial assessment and overview of climate finance flows 
to attribute MDB finance from developed countries to developing countries suggests that 
USD 11.4 billion in 2013 and USD 12.7 billion in 2014 was delivered by developed 
countries. A more advanced methodology, which captures better the mobilization effect 
through the MDBs, suggests that USD 14.9 billion in 2013 and USD 16.6 billion in 2014 
can be attributed to developed c ountries.  
Private climate finance  
18. The major source of uncertainty regarding flows to developing countries relates to 
the amount of private climate finance provided. Initial partial estimates of direct and 
mobilized private finance are available. Based on  project -level data, renewable energy 
finance by developed country companies in developing countries is estimated at USD 1.8 
billion in 2013 and USD 2.1 billion in 2014. Foreign direct investment in greenfield 
alternative and renewable energy in developing  countries was estimated at USD 26.4 
billion in 2013 and USD 21.6 billion in 2014. Both estimates are likely to be conservative. 
OECD and the Climate Policy Initiative (CPI) compiled an initial partial estimate of private 
finance mobilized by developed cou ntries and identified USD 12.8 billion in 2013 and USD 
16.7 billion in 2014 of private co -finance. These figures include private finance mobilized 
from international sources in addition to private finance mobilized domestically in 
developing countries. The se partial estimates of direct private finance and mobilized 
finance are distinct, and cannot simply be aggregated.  
Instruments   
19. The mix of instruments used to channel support differs by funding source (see figure 
2). About 35 per cent of the bilateral, r egional and other finance reported to the UNFCCC 
in BRs is spent as grants , 20 per cent as concessional loans, 10 per cent as non -concessional 
loans, and the remainder through equity and other instruments. About 38 per cent of the 
reported finance is chann elled through multilateral institutions, many of whom are MDBs 
that utilize capital contributions and commitments from member countries to raise low -cost 
capital from other sources of funding, including for donor contributions. This enables 
MDBs to offer a  range of instruments and financial products, including grants (9 per cent), 
loans, including concessional loans, (83 per cent), equity (2 per cent) and other instruments 
(6 per cent). About 53 per cent of funding from multilateral climate funds is provide d as FCCC/CP/2016/10 /Add.1  
 25 grants, and the remainder is largely concessional loans, which have increased as a share of 
approved funding over time. Forty -nine per cent of bilateral climate finance reported to the 
OECD is provided as grants, and 47 per cent as concessional loans.  
Recipients  
20. Climate finance goes to a wide range of governmental, private and non -
governmental entities in recipient countries. However, reporting on recipient institutions is 
incomplete. For example, recipient data are available for about 50 per cent of the bilateral 
finance reported to the OECD DAC. For 2013 2014, developing country governments are 
specified as the recipients of about 40 per cent of the total flow. Climate finance channelled 
through other intermediaries may also reach national government s, but this is not captured 
in the data. Improving data on the recipients of climate finance could be an area for further 
work.  
Global finance flows  
21. On a comparable basis, global total climate finance has increased by almost 15 per 
cent since 2011 2012. I n dollar terms estimated global total climate finance increased from 
a high bound estimate of USD 650 billion for 2011 2012 to USD 687 billion for 2013 and 
to 741 billion for 2014. Private investment in renewable energy and energy efficiency 
represents the  largest share of the global total; however, the energy efficiency data are 
much less certain than the renewable energy data. Levels of finance have increased as the 
costs of clean technology have continued to fall. The coverage of data in the 2016 biennia l 
assessment and overview of climate finance flows has increased and improved since the 
2014 biennial assessment and overview of climate finance flows, but nevertheless the 
quality and completeness of data on global total flows are lower than those for flo ws to 
developing countries.  
22. The estimate of global total climate finance in the 2016 biennial assessment and 
overview of climate finance flows includes adjustments to the CPI estimate that were not 
part of the 2011 2012 estimate reported in the 2014 bienni al assessment and overview of 
climate finance flows. Partial data on domestic public finance expenditures of USD 192 
billion per year were compiled. If these additional adjustments are included, they raise the 
upper end of the range to USD 880 billion in 2 013 and USD 930 billion in 2014. However, 
the volume of the climate -related finance and investment flows globally may be higher, 
given that there are still significant data gaps in critical sectors such as sustainable 
transportation, agriculture, energy ef ficiency and resilient infrastructure.  
23. Domestic climate finance: Comprehensive data on domestic climate expenditures 
are not available. Limited information is included in the BURs; estimates of climate -related 
finance included in national budgets, domestic  climate finance provided by national 
development banks and commitments by developing country national climate funds. These 
indicative estimates suggest flows of USD 192 billion per year in developed and 
developing countries.  
24. Some studies suggest that mos t climate finance in aggregate is mobilized and 
deployed domestically, both in developed and developing countries. In the limited number 
of developing countries for which information on domestic public climate finance is 
available, the data suggest that, i n these countries, domestic public finance significantly 
exceeds the inflows of international public climate finance from bilateral and multilateral 
sources.  
25. South –South cooperation: Data are limited, and mainly sourced from the OECD 
DAC, complemented wit h reports from a small number of other countries. On this basis, 
South –South cooperation was estimated to be in the range USD 5.9 9.1 billion for 2013 FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.1  
26  and USD 7.2 11.7 billion for 2014, of which about half was channelled through 
multilateral institutions.  
Figure 1   
Climate finance flows in 2013 –2014 (USD billion and annualized)  
 
Note : Figure is not to scale, but seeks to show the relative size of flows. Flows to developing countries are a subset 
of global total flows.  
FCCC/CP/2016/10 /Add.1  
 27 Abbreviations : BNEF = Bloomberg New Energy Finance, BR = biennial report, BUR = biennial update report, 
CPEIR = Climate Public Expenditure and Institutional Reviews, CPI = Climate Policy Initiative, CTF = common 
tabular format, FDI = foreign direct investment, GFLAC = Cl imate Finance Group for Latin America and the 
Caribbean, IEA = International Energy Agency, MDB = multilateral development bank, ODI = Overseas 
Development Institute, OECD = Organisation for Economic Co -operation and Development, RE = renewable 
energy,  UND P = United Nations Development Programme . 
a  Includes commitments approved during 2013 and 2014. Almost all contributions are contributed by Parties 
included in Annex II to the Convention (Annex II Parties). The values do not reflect pledges to the Green C limate 
Fund amounting to USD 10.2  billion by the end of 2014.  
b  From Annex II Parties to Parties not included in Annex I to the Convention (non -Annex I Parties). Values are 
derived by excluding climate finance to Parties included in Annex I to the Convent ion from the total climate 
finance provided by MDBs from their own resources to arrive at climate finance provided to non -Annex I Parties, 
and by attributing 85 per cent of this to Annex II Parties.  
c  From Annex II Parties to non -Annex I Parties.  
d  From  Annex II Parties as well as Czechia, Poland, Slovakia and Slovenia.   
Figure 2  
Characteristics of public finance in developing countries for 2013 –2014  
 
c  Not primarily development or concessional. One per cent of the equity reported is concessional equity.  
3. Assessment of climate finance flows  
26. An assessment of the data underlying the overview of climate finance flows offers 
insights into key questions of interes t in the context of the UNFCCC negotiations, including 
support for adaptation and mitigation, levels of finance for different regions and how 
Note : All values are based on approvals.  
Abbreviations : DFID = Department for International Development, GIZ = Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale 
Zusammenarbeit, MDB = multilateral development bank, NGO = non -governmental organization, NORAD = Norwegian Agency 
for Development Cooperation, USAID = United  States Agency for International Development  
a  Adaptation Fund, Global Environment Facility, Special Climate Change Fund and Least Developed Countries Fund. No Green 
Climate Fund projects were approved during 2013 –2014.  
b  The values for bilateral financ e are based on biennial report data for figure 1 in this document. The percentages for bilateral 
climate finance in this table are based on Organisation for Economic Co -operation and Development data due to data availability.  FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.1  
28  finance is delivered. Key features of different channels of climate finance for developing 
countries are summarize d in figure 2.  
27. Mitigation -focused finance represented more than 70 per cent of the public finance 
in developing countries reported in 2013 and 2014. Adaptation finance provided to 
developing countries accounted for about 25 per cent of the total finance. This is similar to 
2011 –2012, although there has been a slight increase in the proportion of adaptation finance 
from climate funds and bilateral concessional channels. More than 80 per cent of MDB 
investments focused on mitigation, and less than 20 per cen t on adaptation.  
28. There has been a significant role for grants in adaptation finance. Grants represent 
88 per cent of adaptation finance approved climate funds and 56 per cent of the bilateral 
finance reported to the OECD DAC with adaptation as a principal  objective. Some least 
developed countries and small island developing States in Africa and Asia have been 
among the largest recipients of adaptation finance.  
29. About 33 per cent of funding from dedicated climate funds, 42 per cent of climate -
related financ e in the OECD DAC and 31 per cent of climate finance reported by MDBs is 
for Asia, often in countries with attractive investment climates. This funding has largely 
supported mitigation, including REDD -plus,7 reflecting the significant greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions from the region. About 21 per cent of finance from dedicated multilateral 
climate funds, 28 per cent of climate -related finance in the OECD DAC and 15 per cent of 
MDB climate finance is directed to African countries. There has been a growing emph asis 
on adaptation in this finance. About 23 per cent of funding from dedicated multilateral 
climate funds, 15 per cent of climate -related finance reported to the OECD DAC and 16 per 
cent of the climate finance reported by MDBs is directed to Latin America  and the 
Caribbean.  
30. There are costs associated with fund management, project development and 
implementation. These costs are recovered through mechanisms including administrative 
budgets and implementing agency fees, which vary across funds and institution s. 
Administrative costs range from less than 1 per cent to nearly 12 per cent of the approved 
funding. The actual costs are not necessarily proportional to the volumes of finance 
approved for projects.  
31. A broad range of issues can present challenges in acc essing climate finance, 
including: low levels of technical capacity to design and develop projects/programmes and 
to monitor and evaluate progress; difficulties in following the procedures of the funds to 
access finance; and low levels of awareness of the need for action and available sources of 
funding. Several efforts to strengthen “readiness” to access and make use of climate finance 
are now under way, and the Green Climate Fund (GCF) has recently stepped up its efforts 
in this regard. Investment in dome stic capacity to structure and attract a range of sources of 
finance is also needed.  
32. Ownership of climate finance and alignment of this finance with national climate 
change priorities and emerging policies and strategies is well recognized as an important 
element for ensuring effectiveness. Another important dimension is engagement of key 
stakeholders across government, particularly ministries of finance and planning, and across 
society, including civil society and the private sector. Most intended national ly determined 
contributions (INDCs) submitted by developing country Parties outlined, in varying levels 
of detail, the estimated financial costs of the future emission reduction and climate 
                                                           
 7 In decision 1/CP.16, paragraph 70, the COP encouraged developing country Parties to contribute to 
mitigation action s in the forest sector by undertaking the following activities: reducing emissions 
from deforestation; reducing emissions from forest degradation; conservation of forest carbon stocks; 
sustainable management of forests; and enhancement of forest carbon sto cks.  FCCC/CP/2016/10 /Add.1  
 29 adaptation scenarios they describe. In general, methodologies used  to estimate financial 
needs or definitions of scope were not specified, and differed substantially. Beyond INDCs, 
few efforts to assess national or global climate finance needs have been completed since the 
2014 biennial assessment and overview of climate  finance flows. INDCs may provide a 
framework for strengthening ownership in the future.  
33. Impact monitoring systems are beginning to mature, although reporting of results 
remains nascent and relatively slow. GHG emission accounts are a primary metric of 
impact and effectiveness used for climate finance mitigation, often complemented with 
relevant output data such as the volume of installed clean energy or reductions in energy 
consumption. Consistency of methodologies for GHG accounting continues to be a 
challenge, though progress has been made by development finance institutions, which have 
adopted common principles.  
34. Most adaptation interventions seek to identify the specific number of people that are 
likely to benefit from the proposed interventions, either directly or indirectly in terms of 
increased resilience. Ensuring the accuracy of estimates can be challenging, due to 
difficulties in identifying beneficiaries, establishing baselines and data collection, and 
defining and tracking resilience over time to what may be slow onset, or 1 -in-100 or 1 -in-
500 year events.  
35. Many funders use co -financing as best available evidence of private finance 
mobilization, and many climate funds use leverage ratios as one of their key results 
indicators. However, co -finance do es not necessarily equate to mobilization, which is often 
used to imply a more causal relationship between public intervention and associated private 
finance, which is more complex to prove. High leverage ratios may not always indicate an 
effective use of public finance, as ratios can also be high in interventions that are the most 
commercially viable.  
36. The 2016 biennial assessment and overview of climate finance flows identified 
climate -related global climate finance flows of USD 714 billion on average in 2 013–2014 
(see figure 1); this is a significant amount, but is relatively small in the context of wider 
trends in global investment (see figure 3). For example, while investment in clean energy is 
rising, volumes of finance for high carbon energy in all cou ntries remain considerably 
higher. Infrastructure and assets are at risk from the impacts of climate change, with serious 
potential consequences for the global economy.  
  FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.1  
30  Figure 3   
Global climate finance in context  
 
Note : This figure seeks to put the total volume of global finance flows in the context of wider trends in global 
investment. The flows featured on this diagram are not strictly comparable, and are presented for illustrative purposes 
only. Full details of the underlying studies are included in chapter 3 of the 2016 biennial assessment and overview of 
climate finance flows.  
Abbreviations : avg = average, bn = billion, IEA = International Energy Agency, INDC = intended nationally 
determined contribution, tn = trillion, UNEP FI = United Nations E nvironment Programme Finance Initiative, 
$ = United States dollars.  
D. Recommendations  
37. The SCF invites the COP to consider the following recommendations:  
(a) Invite Parties, the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris Agreement, the 
Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice, the Subsidiary Body for 
Implementation and other relevant bodies under the Convention to consider the 2016 
biennial assessment and overview of climate finance flows, particularly its key findings, in 
order to improve guidelines for th e preparation and reporting of financial information,8 as 
well as to develop the modalities, procedures and guidelines, as appropriate, for the 
transparency of support in accordance with Articles 9 and 13 of the Paris Agreement;  
                                                           
 8 This includes enhanced information on: sectors, financial instruments, the methodology used for 
reporting financial support through bilateral channels, the methodology used to identify climate -
specific portions of public financial support through multilateral channels, and disaggregated data at 
the activity level.   
FCCC/CP/2016/10 /Add.1  
 31 (b) Request the SCF, in fulfill ing its function on measurement, reporting and 
verification of support, and in the context of its workplan, to cooperate with relevant 
institutions and experts and to consider ongoing work under the Convention;  
Engaging with international organizations and  the private sector  
(c) Encourage climate finance providers to enhance the availability of granular, 
country -level data and for the UNFCCC secretariat to make such information more 
accessible, including via enhanced web -based data platforms;  
(d) Encourage relevant  institutions and experts, including from the private sector, 
to devise practical options for estimating and collecting data on private climate finance, 
taking into consideration ongoing work by the OECD Research Collaborative on Tracking 
Private Climate F inance and by MDBs;  
Ownership, needs and impact  
(e) Encourage developing countries to take advantage of the resources available 
through the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism to strengthen their institutional 
capacity to programme their priority cli mate actions as well as to track and report climate 
finance;  
(f) Request the SCF in preparing future biennial assessments and overviews of 
climate finance flows to assess  available information on investment needs  and plans related 
to Parties’ nationally determ ined contributions and national adaptation plans;  
(g) Encourage Parties and relevant international institutions to enhance the 
availability of information that will be necessary for tracking global progress on the goals 
outlined in Article 2 of the Paris Agree ment;   
(h) Invite the Board of the GCF to consider information in the biennial 
assessment and overview of climate finance flows in its annual dialogues with climate 
finance delivery channels in order to enhance complementarity and coherence between the 
GCF and  other funds at the activity level;  
(i) Invite multilateral climate funds, MDBs, other financial institutions and 
relevant international organizations to continue working to further harmonize methods for 
measuring climate finance and to advance comparable appr oaches for tracking and 
reporting on impacts.  
 
10th plenary meeting  
18 November 2016FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.1  
32  Decision 9/CP.22  
  Terms of reference for the review of the functions of the 
Standing Committee on Finance  
 The Conference of the Parties , 
 Recalling  decisions 6/CP.20, 6/CP.21 and 1/CP.21, in particular paragraph 63,  
1. Adopts  the terms of reference for the review of the functions of the Standi ng 
Committee on Finance contained in the annex;  
2. Takes note  of the report of the Standing Committee on Finance to the twenty -second 
session of the Conference of the Parties and in particular annex VII thereto;1  
3. Invites  members of the Standing Committee on Finance, Parties, the constituted 
bodies under the Convention and external stakeholders to submit, by 9 March 2017, their 
views on the review of the Standing Committee on Finance based on the terms of reference 
contain ed in the annex, for consideration by the Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its 
forty -sixth session (May 2017);2  
4. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation, at its forty -sixth session, to 
initiate work on the review of the functions of the Standi ng Committee on Finance in 
accordance with the terms of reference contained in the annex, taking into account the 
submissions referred to in paragraph 3 above;  
5. Also requests  the secretariat to prepare a technical paper on the review of the 
Standing Committee on Finance, in accordance with the terms of reference contained in the 
annex, taking into account the deliberations and conclusions of the Subsidiary Body for 
Implementat ion at its forty -sixth session and the submissions referred to in paragraph 3 
above, for consideration by the Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its forty -seventh 
session (November 2017);  
6. Further requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to comple te its work on 
the review of the Standing Committee on Finance at its forty -seventh session with a view to 
recommending a draft decision on the matter for consideration and adoption by the 
Conference of the Parties at its twenty -third session (November 201 7).  
                                                           
 1 FCCC/CP/2016/8 . 
 2 Parties should submit their views via the submission portal at <http://www.unfccc .int/5900>. 
Observers and other stakeholders should e -mail their submissions to < secretariat@unfccc.int>.  FCCC/CP/2016/10 /Add.1  
 33 Annex  
Terms  of reference  for the review  of the functions  of the Standing  Committee  
on Finance  
A. Objective  
1. The objective of the review of the Standing Committee on Finance (SCF) is to 
review the functions of the committee, w ith a view to:  
(a) Strengthening the work of the SCF, as appropriate;  
(b) Identifying opportunities for increased efficiency and effectiveness;  
(c) Informing Parties on the extent to which the existing activities and working 
modalities of the SCF will fulfil its mand ate to serve the Paris Agreement in line with 
decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 63;  
(d) Taking into account interrelated review processes, such as the sixth review of 
the Financial Mechanism.  
B. Scope  
2. The scope of the review will cover the progress made to date and lessons learned in 
the fulfilment of the mandate of the SCF to assist the Conference of the Parties (COP) in 
the exercise of its functions with respect to the Financial Mechanism. In this context, the 
review should:  
(a) Be based on the current mandate and func tions of the SCF;  
(b) Be informed by the work on climate finance conducted by other entities;  
(c) Examine whether any gaps exist in the delivery of the work of the SCF and 
how they can be addressed.  
3. The review should address the following elements:  
(a) Assessment of the extent to which the SCF has effectively delivered on its 
core functions and mandated activities as outlined in decision 2/CP.17 and other relevant 
decisions and, in this regard, taking stock of past achievements of the SCF in terms of its 
concrete outp uts and how they have been utilized;  
(b) Identification of the potential need for reorientation or reprioritization of the 
existing functions of the SCF;  
(c) Assessment of whether the working modalities of the SCF, including the 
participation of its members, are  fit-for-purpose for carrying out its functions;  
(d) Quality of outputs;  
(e) Linkages with the constituted bodies under the Convention;  
(f) Relations with relevant external stakeholders.  
C. Sources of information  
4. The review shall draw upon, inter alia, the following sources of information:  FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.1  
34  (a) Submissions from members of the SCF, Parties and the constituted bodies 
under the Convention, as well as external stakeholders involved in the activities of the SCF;  
(b) The annual  reports of the SCF, including, in particular, annex VII to its report 
to COP 22;1  
(c) The relevant decisions of the COP related to the SCF;  
(d) Outputs delivered by the SCF, such as the biennial assessment and overview 
of climate finance flows;  
(e) A self -assessment  report of the SCF and recommendations on improving its 
efficiency and effectiveness;  
(f) The technical paper to be prepared by the secretariat in line with paragraph 5 
of this decision.  
D. Criteria  
5. The review shall take into account, inter alia, the following:  
(a) The effectiveness and efficiency of the SCF in the delivery of its functions;  
(b) The transparency of its decision -making processes;  
(c) The level and nature of stakeholder engagement;  
(d) The quality and added value of the outputs of the SCF, including how they 
were received by the COP and external stakeholders, and in particular how its 
recommendations have informed and advanced the work of the COP;  
(e) The timeliness of the outputs of the SCF.  
10th plenary meeting  
18 November 2016
                                                           
 1 FCCC/CP/2016/8 . FCCC/CP/2016/10 /Add.1  
 35 Decision 10/CP.22  
  Report of the Green Climate Fund to the Conference of the 
Parties and guidance to the Green Climate Fund  
 The Conference of the Parties,  
 Recalling  decision 7/CP.21,  
 Noting  the draft decision on the guidance to the Green Climate Fund prepared by the 
Standing Committee on Finance,1  
1. Welcomes  the report of the Green Climate Fund to the Conference of the Parties and 
its addendum,2 and the information contained therein on the pr ogress made by the Green 
Climate Fund, including the detailed and comprehensive list of actions taken by the Board 
of the Green Climate Fund (hereinafter referred to as the Board) in response to the guidance 
received from the Conference of the Parties;  
2. Also welcomes  the following actions taken by the Board in response to previous 
guidance from the Conference of the Parties as contained in decisions 3/CP.17, 6/CP.18, 
4/CP.19, 7/CP.20 and 7/CP.21:  
(a) The approval of USD 1.17 billion for 27 projects and program mes in 39 
countries and the issuance of requests for proposals for modalities that enhanced direct 
access, worth up to USD 200 million, and the issuance of requests for proposals for micro, 
small and medium -sized enterprises worth up to USD 100 million;  
(b) The accreditation of 41 entities to date, including 18 direct access entities, 
and the decision to prioritize in 2016 and 2017 the accreditation of national direct access 
entities, entities in the Asia -Pacific and Eastern European regions, private sector ent ities, in 
particular those in developing countries, and entities responding to requests for proposals 
issued by the Green Climate Fund;  
(c) The adoption of the initial strategic plan for the Green Climate Fund;  
(d) Decisions to initiate and conclude the review of the initial proposal approvals 
process and the simplified approvals procedure for certain small -scale activities in 2016;  
(e) Progress made to date in the implementation of the readiness and preparatory 
support programme with the approval of readiness proposal s in 57 countries totalling USD 
16 million, including the decision of the Board to simplify the template and to mandate the 
Green Climate Fund secretariat to expedite the approval and disbursement of readiness and 
preparatory support resources;  
(f) The approva l of up to USD 3 million per country in funding for the 
preparation of national adaptation plans and/or other national adaptation planning processes 
through the readiness and preparatory support programme;  
(g) The operationalization of the project preparation facility of the Green Climate 
Fund, including the development of operational modalities and approval of an initial 
allocation of USD 40 million;  
(h) The approval of the information disclosure policy, including the webcasting 
of Board proceedings, thus increasi ng the transparency of the Board’s decision -making;  
                                                           
 1 FCCC/CP/2016/8, annex V.  
 2 FCCC/CP/2016/7 and Add.1.  FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.1  
36  (i) The acknowledgment that the Green Climate Fund’s modalities enable 
support for the preparation and implementation of the nationally determined contributions 
and adaptation -related elements of the Paris Ag reement;  
(j) Responses to the operationalization of results -based payments for the 
activities referred to in decision 1/CP.16, paragraph 70, consistent with decision 9/CP.19 
and in accordance with Board decision B.08/08, as well as the recognition that the Gre en 
Climate Fund can support the development and implementation of national REDD -plus3 
strategies or action plans and investment plans, including through the readiness and 
preparatory support programme;  
(k) The acknowledgment that the Green Climate Fund’s opera tional modalities 
enabled support for technology development and transfer, including for facilitating access 
to environmentally sound technologies and for collaborative research and development;  
(l) The appointment of the second Executive Director of the Green  Climate 
Fund secretariat and the Heads of the Independent Redress Mechanism, the Independent 
Integrity Unit and the Independent Evaluation Unit;  
(m) Decisions to increase the staffing of the Green Climate Fund secretariat, in 
particular by addressing the capa city limitations in the Mitigation and Adaptation Division 
and the Private Sector Facility Division, and the secretariat’s risk management capacity;  
(n) Decisions to develop an operational framework on complementarity and 
coherence with other financing instit utions, and progress on the relationship with the 
thematic bodies of the Convention, including the hosting of the first annual event with these 
bodies, and engagement with the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network;  
3. Looks forward  to the ongoing and timely implementation by the Board of the above -
mentioned decisions and guidance received from the Conference of the Parties, including 
the initial strategic plan, and the scaling up of investments in ambitious country -driven  
climate action;  
4. Urges  the Board to finalize in a timely manner its work related to the guidance of 
the Conference of the Parties on financing for forests as mandated by decision 7/CP.21, 
paragraphs 23 –25; 
5. Also urges  Parties that made pledges under the ini tial resource mobilization process 
of the Green Climate Fund but have not yet confirmed them through fully executed 
contribution arrangements or agreements to do so as a matter of high priority;  
6. Requests  the Board to facilitate an increase in the amount of  direct access proposals 
in the pipeline and to report to the Conference of the Parties on progress made in this 
regard;  
7. Also requests  the Board to take into account decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 64, to 
enhance the coordination and delivery of resources to support country -driven strategies 
through simplified and efficient application and approval procedures, and through 
continued readiness support to developing country Parties, including the least developed 
countries and small island developing States, as ap propriate, and in accordance with Board 
decisions;  
                                                           
 3 In decision 1/CP.16, paragraph 70, the Conference of the Parties encouraged developing country 
Parties to contribute to mitigation actions in the fore st sector by undertaking the following activities, 
as deemed appropriate by each Party and in accordance with their respective capabilities and national 
circumstances: reducing emissions from deforestation; reducing emissions from forest degradation; 
conse rvation of forest carbon stocks; sustainable management of forests; and enhancement of forest 
carbon stocks.  FCCC/CP/2016/10 /Add.1  
 37 8. Notes with concern  the lack of signed bilateral agreements related to privileges and 
immunities in order for the Green Climate Fund to undertake its activities;  
9. Looks forward  to the biennial report on the matter referred to in paragraph 8 above, 
in accordance with decision 7/CP.20, paragraph 20, and Board decis ion B.08/24;  
10. Requests  the Board to enhance the delivery of resources by addressing those 
measures that are delaying th e implementation of projects that have been approved by the 
Board, including the conclusion of pending accreditation master agreements and funded 
activity agreements;  
11. Encourages  the Board to implement its decision B.04/08 to develop modalities to 
support a ctivities enabling private sector involvement in the least developed countries and 
small island developing States, and to seek opportunities to engage with the private sector, 
including local actors, on adaptation action at the national, regional and inter national levels;  
12. Invites  national designated authorities and focal points to utilize the readiness and 
preparatory support programme, and to collaborate with accredited entities to use the 
project preparation facility, where appropriate, to prepare adaptat ion and mitigation 
proposals of increasing quality and impact potential;  
13. Reiterates its request4 to the Board to agree on the arrangements for the first formal 
replenishment process of the Green Climate Fund;  
14. Invites  Parties to submit via the submission po rtal5 annually, no later than 10 weeks 
prior to each session of the Conference of the Parties, their views and recommendations on 
the elements to be taken into account in developing guidance to the Green Climate Fund;  
15. Requests  the Standing Committee on Fin ance to take into consideration the 
submissions referred to in paragraph 14 above when preparing draft guidance to the Green 
Climate Fund for consideration by the Conference of the Parties;  
16. Also requests the Green Climate Fund, as an operating entity of th e Financial 
Mechanism, to include in its annual report to the Conference of the Parties information on 
the steps it has taken and the timeline for the implementation of the guidance provided in 
this decision.  
10th plenary meeting  
18 November 2016
                                                           
 4 Decision 7/CP.21, paragraph 10.  
 5 <http://www.unfccc.int/5900>.  FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.1  
38  Decision 11/CP.22  
  Report of the Global Environment Facility to the Conference 
of the Parties and guidance to the Global Environment 
Facility  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  decision 8/CP.21,  
Welcomin g the report of the Global Environment Facility to the Conference of the 
Parties and its addend a report s, including on the technical review of the programme 
priorities of the Least Developed Countries Fund,1 
Noting the draft decision on the guidance to the  Global Environment Facility 
prepared by the Standing Committee on Finance, as contained in its report to the 
Conference of the Parties2 and the Standing Committee on Finance 2016 biennial 
assessment and overview of climate finance flows as context for the  provision of guidance,  
1. Emphasizes  the need for the Global Environment Facility to consider lessons learned 
from past replenishment periods and to take into account the entry into force of the Paris 
Agreement in its deliberations on the strategy for the seventh replenishment of the Global 
Environment Facility Trust Fund in order to continue to increase the effectiveness of its 
operations;  
2. Calls upon developed country Parties, and invites  other Parties that make voluntary 
financial contributions to the Globa l Environment Facility, to ensure a robust seventh 
replenishment, in order to assist in providing adequate and predictable funding taking into 
consideration the Paris Agreement;  
3. Requests the Global Environment Facility , as an operating entity of the Financ ial 
Mechanism of the Convention, in its seventh replenishment programming, to continue to 
assist developing countries, in particular the least developed countries and small island 
developing States, in accessing resources in an efficient manner;  
4. Also reque sts the Global Environment Facility, as appropriate, to ensure that its 
policies and procedures related to the consideration and review of funding proposals be 
duly followed in an efficient manner;  
5. Takes note of the projected shortfall of resources from th e sixth replenishment of the 
Global Environment Facility due to exchange rate movements, and the decision of the 
Council of the Global Environment Facility on item 6 on the agenda of the 51st meeting of 
the council;3 
6. Requests the Global Environment Facilit y to continue its efforts, as appropriate and 
as needed, to minimize the potential consequences of the projected shortfall referred to in 
paragraph 5 above for its support to developing countries, aiming to fulfil the relevant 
programming directions of the  sixth replenishment of the Global Environment Facility;  
                                                           
 1 FCCC/CP/2016/6, Add.1 and 2. 
 2 FCCC/CP/2016/8, annex VI.   
 3 Global Envi ronment Facility document GEF/C.51/04.   FCCC/CP/2016/10 /Add.1  
 39 7. Welcomes  the decisions of the Council of the Global Environment Facility to 
establish the Trust Fund for the Capacity -building Initiative for Transparency4 and to 
approve the Capacity -building Initia tive for Transparency  programming directions ,5 and to 
ensure that the support for the Capacity -building Initiative for Transparency will be 
included in the seventh replenishment, to complement existing support under the Global 
Environment Facility, in accordance with decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 86;  
8. Also welcomes  the pledges made by several countries to make voluntary 
contributions to the Capacity -building Initiative for Transparency and the signing of the 
first contribution agreement by a country and encourages  others that have pledged to make 
voluntar y contributions to finalize their contribution agreements;  
9. Requests  the Global Environment Facility,  as an operating entity of the Financial 
Mechanism of the Convention,  to continue providing in its annual reports, inter alia, 
information on the establishm ent and operation of the Capacity -building Initiative for 
Transparency, including its programming and implementation modalities, on the voluntary 
contributions pledged and provided,6 and on the implementation of decision 9/CP.18;  
10. Welcomes  the Global Enviro nment Facility’s continued engagement and 
coordination  with the Climate Technology Centre and Network through the Poznan 
strategic programme on technology transfer and the regional technology transfer and 
financing centres, as well as actions taken by the Global Environment Facility in response 
to the recommendations by the Technology Executive Committee following the evaluation 
of the Poznan strategic programme on technology transfer ; 
11. Urges the Global Environment Facility and recipient countries to continu e exploring 
with the Climate Technology Centre and Network ways to support climate technology 
related projects through country allocations of the sixth replenishment of the Global 
Environment Facility;  
12. Requests  the Global Environment Facility , as an operat ing entity of the Financial 
Mechanism of the Convention,  to take into consideration climate risks in all its programmes 
and operations , as appropriate, keeping in mind lessons learned and best practices ; 
13. Encourages the Global Environment Facility to continue its efforts to encourage 
countries to align, as appropriate, their Global Environment Facility programming with 
priorities as identified in their nationally determined contributions, where they exist, during 
the seventh replenishment, and to conti nue to promote synergies across its focal areas;  
14. Welcomes  the conclusions of the “Program evaluation of the Least Developed 
Countries Fund” by the Global Environment Facility’s Independent Evaluation Office;7  
15. Requests the Global Environment Facility, as t he operating entity of the Financial 
Mechanism of the Convention entrusted with the operation of the Least Developed 
Countries Fund, to continue to enhance capacity development in the least developed 
countries for the development of project proposals with a focus on identifying potential 
funding sources, both national and international, and enhancing long -term domestic 
institutional capacities;  
16. Encourages the Global Environment Facility to continue to track, review and report 
on the sustainability of projec t outcomes  from the Least Developed Countries Fund and the 
Special Climate Change Fund ; 
                                                           
 4 Global Environment Facility document GEF/C.50/05.   
 5 Global Environment Facility document GEF/C.50/06.   
 6 See decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 86.   
 7 Available at < http://www.gefieo.org/sites/default/files/ieo/council -documents/ldcf -sccf-20-me-
02.pdf >.  FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.1  
40  17. Welcomes  the initial assessment of the accreditation pilot  and notes  its conclusions ;8 
18. Requests  the Global Environment Facility,  as an operating entity of the Financial  
Mechanism of the Convention , in light of the entry into force of the Paris Agreement, to 
continue streamlining project approval processes and providing enhanced support, 
including enabling activities, to developing country Parties, including the least dev eloped 
countries  and small island developing States, as appropriate, in the context of national 
climate strategies and plans;  
19. Welcomes the successful roll -out of the non -grant instrument pilot and encourages  
further expansion of the pilot with a view to increasing the leverage and impact of Global 
Environment Facility financing;  
20. Invites Parties to submit via the submission portal9 annually, no later than 10 weeks 
prior to each  session of the Conference of the  Parties, their views and recommendations on 
the elements to be taken into account in developing guidance to the Global Environment 
Facility;  
21. Requests  the Standing Committee on Finance to take into consideration the 
submissions referred to in paragraph 20  above when providing draft guidance to the Global 
Environment Facility for consideration by the Conference of the Parties;  
22. Also requests  the Global Environment Facility  to include in its annual report to the 
Conference of the Parties information on the st eps that it has taken to implement the 
guidance provided to it in this decision.  
10th plenary meeting  
18 November 2016
                                                           
 8 Contained in Global Environment Facility documents GEF/C.50/07 and GEF/ME/C.50/06.   
 9 <http://www.unfccc.int/5900>.   FCCC/CP/2016/10 /Add.1  
 41 Decision 1 2/CP.22  
  Sixth review of the Financial Mechanism  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling decisions 3/CP.4, 2/CP.12, 6/CP.13, 2/CP.16, 8/CP.19, 9/CP.20 and 
1/CP.21,  
Recognizing  that the review of the Financial Mechanism should inform the 
replenishment processes of the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism,  
1. Decides to adopt the updated g uidelines for the sixth review of the Financial 
Mechanism contained in the annex;  
2. Requests  the Standing Committee on Finance to provide, in its report to the twenty -
third session of the Conference of the Parties (November 2017), expert input to the sixth 
review of the Financial Mechanism, with a view to the review being finalized by the 
Conference of the Parties at its twenty -third session;  
3. Invites  Parties, observers and other interested international organizations, 
stakeholders and non -governmental organiz ations involved in the activities of the operating 
entities of the Financial Mechanism to submit, by 30 April 2017, their views on the sixth 
review of the Financial Mechanism based on the guidelines contained in the annex, for 
consideration by the Standing  Committee on Finance in preparing its expert input to the 
review.1   
                                                           
 1 Parties should submit their views via the submission portal at <http://www.unfccc.int/5900>. 
Observers and other stakeholders should e -mail their submissions to <secretariat@unfccc.int>.  FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.1  
42  Annex  
Updated guidelines for the sixth review of the Financial Mechanism  
A. Objectives  
1. In accordance with Article 11, paragraph 4, of the Convention, the objectives of the 
sixth review of the Financial Mechanism will be as follows:  
(a) To review the Financial Mechanism and take appropriate measures 
regarding:  
(i) Its conformity with the provisions of Article 11 of the Convention and the 
guidance provided by the Conference of the Parties (COP);  
(ii) The effectiveness of the activities it funds in implementing the Convention;  
(iii) Its effectiveness in providing financial resources on a grant or concessional 
basis, including for the transfer of technology, for the implementation of the 
Convention’s objective on the basis of the guidance provided by the COP;  
(iv) Its effectiveness in providing resources to developing country Parties under 
Article 4, paragraph 3, of the Convention;  
(v) The effectiveness of access modalities for developing countries;  
(b) To examine consistency a nd complementarity between the operating entities 
of the Financial Mechanism, and between the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism 
and other sources of investment and financial flows, including:  
(i) Examining relevant sources, channels and means of fi nancing, as indicated in 
Article 11, paragraph 5, of the Convention, that would assist developing country 
Parties to contribute to the achievement of the objective of the Convention, in 
particular innovative means of financing, such as for the development of 
endogenous technologies in developing countries;  
(ii) Examining the role of the Financial Mechanism in scaling up the level of 
resources;  
(iii) Assessing enabling environments for catalysing investment in, and the 
transfer of, environmentally sound technologies th at mitigate greenhouse gas 
emissions, and for enhancing resilience to climate change.  
B. Sources of information  
2. The review shall draw upon, inter alia, the following sources of information:  
(a) Information provided by Parties on their experiences regarding financ ial 
support provided and received in accordance with COP decisions;  
(b) Annual guidance provided by the COP to the operating entities of the 
Financial Mechanism with regard to the conformity of their activities with the guidance 
provided by the COP;  
(c) The annual  reports of the Standing Committee on Finance (SCF) to the COP 
on its activities and relevant technical information produced by the committee such as the FCCC/CP/2016/10 /Add.1  
 43 biennial assessments and overview of climate finance flows and outcomes of the SCF 
forums;  
(d) The annual  reports of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) to the COP on 
its activities as an operating entity of the Financial Mechanism, including the information 
on the Least Developed Countries Fund and the Special Climate Change Fund, and other 
relevant GEF po licy and information documents;  
(e) The reports from the GEF Independent Evaluation Office;  
(f) The annual reports of the Board of the Green Climate Fund (GCF) to the 
COP on its activities as an operating entity of the Financial Mechanism and other relevant 
GCF po licy and information documents;  
(g) The reports of the Adaptation Fund Board to the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the outcomes of the reviews 
of the Adaptation Fund;  
(h) The outcomes and reports of the Un ited Nations processes, relevant bilateral 
and multilateral funding institutions and other intergovernmental and non -governmental 
organizations dealing with climate financing;  
(i) Relevant reports on private -sector financing and investment for climate 
change a ctivities;  
(j) Technical papers and reports prepared by the secretariat at the request of the 
COP which are relevant to the financial needs of developing country Parties under the 
Convention;  
(k) Information contained in the national communications of Parties to the 
Convention, technology needs assessments and national adaptation programmes of action;  
(l) The reports of the in -session workshops on long -term finance;  
(m) The biennial submissions from devel oped country Parties on their updated 
strategies and approaches for scaling up climate finance from 2014 to 2020, including any 
available information on quantitative and qualitative elements of a pathway;  
(n) The reports of the Least Developed Countries Expert  Group and the 
Consultative Group of Experts on National Communications from Parties not included in 
Annex I to the Convention.  
C. Criteria  
3. The effectiveness of the Financial Mechanism will be assessed taking into account 
the following:  
(a) The transparency of t he decision -making processes of the operating entities 
of the Financial Mechanism;  
(b) The level of stakeholder involvement;  
(c) The extent to which the Financial Mechanism is contributing to gender -
sensitive approaches;  
(d) The adequacy and predictability, accessibil ity and timeliness and rate of 
disbursement of funds for activities in developing country Parties, including projects in the 
pipeline;  FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.1  
44  (e) The responsiveness, efficiency and performance of the cycle for 
project/programme approval procedures of the operating en tities of the Financial 
Mechanism;  
(f) The amount of resources provided to developing country Parties, including 
financing for technical assistance and investment projects, and the mechanisms for country 
allocation, as well as the results and impacts achieved by the resources provided;  
(g) The amount of finance leveraged, and modalities and ratios of co -financing 
and the use of financial instruments where applicable;  
(h) The extent to which the resources provided are contributing to achieving the 
objective of the Conv ention;  
(i) The sustainability of funded programmes, projects and operations in 
developing country Parties;  
(j) The extent to which the Financial Mechanism is contributing to the country 
ownership of programmes and projects.  
10th plenary meeting  
18 November 2016FCCC/CP/2016/10 /Add.1  
 45 Decision 1 3/CP.22  
  Initiation of a process to identify the information to be 
provided by Parties in accordance with Article 9,  
paragraph 5, of the Paris Agreement  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  Article 9, paragraphs 1, 3 and 5, of the Paris Agreement,  
Also recalling  decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 55,  
Further recalling decision 3/CP.19, paragraph 10,  
Having initiated the process to identify the information to be provided by Parties in 
accordance wi th Article 9, paragraph 5, of the Paris Agreement,  
1. Recalls that developed country Parties shall biennially communicate indicative 
quantitative and qualitative information related to Article 9, paragraphs 1 and 3, of the Paris 
Agreement, as applicable, incl uding, as available, projected levels of public financial 
resources to be provided to developing country Parties, and that other Parties providing 
resources are encouraged to communicate biennially such information on a voluntary 
basis;1 
2. Requests the secre tariat to organize a round -table discussion among Parties on this 
matter in conjunction with the forty -sixth sessions of the subsidiary bodies (May 2017);  
3. Also requests  the secretariat to prepare a summary report of the round -table 
discussion referred to i n paragraph 2 above for consideration by the Conference of the 
Parties at its twenty -third session (November 2017);  
4. Agrees  to advance work on this matter at its twenty -third session, with a view to 
providing a recommendation on information to be provided b y Parties in accordance with 
Article 9, paragraph 5, of the Paris Agreement for consideration and adoption by the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at its 
first session;  
5. Takes note of the estimated budge tary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat pursuant to the provisions contained in paragraphs 2 and 3 above;  
6. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
10th plenary meeting  
18 November 201 6 
    
                                                           
 1 Article 9, paragraph 5, of the Paris Agreement.   
 
GE.17 -01418(E)  

Conference of the Parties  
  Report of the Conference of the Parties on its twenty -second  
session, held in Marrakech  from 7 to 18 November  2016 
 Addendum  
 Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -
second  session  
Contents  
  Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties  
Decision   Page 
  14/CP.2 2  Linkages between  the Technology Mechanism and the Financial Mechanism  
 of the Convention  ................................ ................................ ................................ ......  3 
  15/CP.22   Enhancing climate technology development and transfer through the  
 Technology Mechanism  ................................ ................................ .............................   5 
  16/CP.22  Third comprehensive review of the implementation of the framework  for  
capacity -building in developing countries under the Convention  ..............................   7 
  17/CP.22  Improving the effectiveness of the Doha work programme on Article 6  
 of the Convention  ................................ ................................ ................................ ......  10 
  18/CP.22  Outcome of the first round of the international assessment and review p rocess  
(2014 –2015)  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...............   13 
  19/CP.22   Implementation of the global observing system for climate  ................................ ......  14 
  20/CP.22  Work of the Consultative Group of Experts on National Communications from  
Parties not included in Annex I to the Convention  ................................ ....................   16 
  21/CP.22  Gender an d climate change  ................................ ................................ ........................   17 
  22/CP.22   Financial and budgetary matters  ................................ ................................ ................   21 
  23/CP.22  Administrative, financial and institutional matters  ................................ ....................   22 
  24/CP.22  Dates and venues of future sessions  ................................ ................................ ...........   30 
  25/CP.22  Rules of procedure of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the  
Parties to the Paris Agreement  ................................ ................................ ...................   32  United Nations  FCCC /CP/2016/ 10/Add.2  
 
  
Distr.: General  
31 January 2017  
 
Original: English  
FCCC/CP/2016/10/Add.2  
2  Resolution  
  1/CP.22  Expression of gratitude to the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco and  
the people of Marrakech  ................................ ................................ ............................   34 FCCC/CP/2016/10/Add.2  
 3 Decision  14/CP.2 2 
  Linkages between the Technology Mechanism and the 
Financial Mechanism of the Convention  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  decisions 1/CP.18, paragraph 62, and 13/CP.21,  
Emphasizing  the importance of financial resources at all stages of the technology 
cycle, including at the early stages, in order to enable Parties to enh ance their mitigation 
and adaptation action,  
1. Welcomes with appreciation the progress made by the Technology Executive 
Committee, the Climate Technology Centre and Network and the operating entities of the 
Financial Mechanism in further elaborating the link ages between the Technology 
Mechanism and the Financial Mechanism, including through an in -session workshop;1 
2. Welcomes the decision of the Board of the Green Climate Fund to hold annual 
meetings between the Green Climate Fund and the constituted bodies und er the 
Convention, including the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology 
Centre and Network, and its invitation to the Chairs of those bodies to its 14th meeting;  
3. Encourages the Board of the Green Climate Fund to continue to invite the Ch airs of 
the Technology Executive Committee and the Advisory Board of the Climate Technology 
Centre and Network to future meetings of the Board of the Green Climate Fund on issues of 
common interest in order to strengthen the existing linkages between the T echnology 
Mechanism and the Financial Mechanism;  
4. Welcomes  the increased engagement between the Green Climate Fund and the 
Climate Technology Centre and Network, particularly with respect to utilizing the 
Readiness and Preparatory Support Programme and the Project Preparation Facility of the 
fund, noting the potential of such engagement in supporting developing country Parties to 
build their capacity for implementing technology projects and programmes;  
5. Notes with appreciation the progress made by the Green C limate Fund in response 
to decision 13/CP.21 regarding support for facilitating access to environmentally sound 
technologies in developing country Parties and for undertaking collaborative research and 
development for enabling developing country Parties to  enhance their mitigation and 
adaptation action;2 
6. Invites Green Climate Fund national designated authorities and focal points to use 
the support available to them under the Readiness and Preparatory Support Programme to, 
inter alia, conduct technology need s assessments and develop technology action plans;  
7. Also invites  developing country Parties to develop and submit technology -related 
projects, including those resulting from technology needs assessments and from the 
technical assistance of the Climate Techn ology Centre and Network, to the operating 
entities of the Financial Mechanism for implementation, in accordance with their respective 
policies and processes;  
                                                           
 1 See annex I to document FCCC/SB/2016/1  and document FCCC/CP/2016/7/Rev.1  and Add.1 . 
 2 Green Climate Fund Board decision B.14/02. Available at 
<http://www.greenclimate.fund/boardroom/board -meetings/documents >. FCCC/CP/2016/10/Add. 2 
4  8. Encourages the Technology Executive Committee, the Climate Technology Centre 
and Network and the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism to enhance the 
involvement of relevant stakeholders as they undertake actions to strengthen the linkages 
between the Technology Mechanism and the Financial Mechanism;  
9. Invites  the Technology Executive Committee,  the Climate Technology Centre and 
Network and the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism to provide information on 
their actions in strengthening the linkages between the Technology Mechanism and the 
Financial Mechanism in their annual reports to t he Conference of the Parties for guidance 
on further actions if needed;  
10. Agrees to continue its consideration of this matter at its twenty -fourth session 
(December 2018).   
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2016 FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.2  
 5 Decision 15/CP.22  
  Enhancing climate technology development and transfer 
through the Technology Mechanism  
 The Conference of the Parties , 
 Recalling  decisions 1/CP.16, 2/CP.17, 4/CP.17, 1/CP.18, 13/CP.18, 14/CP.18, 
25/CP.19, 16/CP.20, 17/CP.20 and 12/CP.21,  
1. Welcomes the joint annual report of the Technology Executive Committee and the 
Climate Technology Centre and Network for 2016, including the key messages and 
recommendations contained therein, and the progress of their work  in facilitating the 
effective implementation of the Technology Mechanism;1 
2. Notes with appreciation  the collaboration between the Technology Executive 
Committee and the Climate Technology Centre and Network, including on climate 
technology financing and research, development and demonstration;  
3. Welcomes  with appreciation the collaboration of the Technolo gy Executive 
Committee and the Climate Technology Centre and Network with the constituted bodies 
under the Convention and relevant stakeholders, enabling the bodies of the Technology 
Mechanism to successfully implement their activities in 2016;  
4. Encourages  the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology 
Centre and Network to continue collaborating in order to enhance coherence and synergy in 
the work of the Technology Mechanism;  
5. Also encourages the Technology Executive Committee and the Advisor y Board of 
the Climate Technology Centre and Network to continue updating the procedures2 for 
preparing the joint chapter of their joint annual report in accordance with decision 
12/CP.21, paragraph 2, and to report on the outcome of this work in their joi nt annual 
report to the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -third session (November 2017);  
6. Invites the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Centre 
and Network to include information in the respective chapters of their future joint annual 
reports on challenges and lessons learned in implementing their respective mandates;  
Activities and performance of the Technology Executive Committee in 2016  
7. Welcomes  the rolling workplan of the Technology Executive Committee for 2016 –
20183 and the progress made by the committee in advancing its implementation, including 
in the areas of adaptation; climate technology financing; emerging and cross -cutting issues; 
innovation and research, development and demonstration; mitigation; and technolo gy needs 
assessments;  
8. Invites  Parties and all relevant stakeholders working on technology development and 
transfer to consider the key messages of the Technology Executive Committee4 when 
implementing climate technology action, noting that they are on the areas of climate 
                                                           
 1 FCCC/SB/2016/1 .  
 2 See document FCCC/SB/2013/1, paragraph 3 . 
 3 Technology Executive Committee document TEC/2016/12/13 -an. Available at 
<https://goo.gl/nybgmc>.  
 4 Annex II to FCCC/SB/2016/1 . FCCC/CP/2016/10/Add. 2 
6  technology financing, South –South cooperation and triangular cooperation on technologies 
for adaptation, and technology needs assessments;  
9. Notes that strengthening linkages between the technology needs assessments, 
nationally determined c ontributions and national adaptation plan processes would enhance 
their effectiveness and responsiveness towards implementation in countries;  
Activities and performance of the Climate Technology Centre and Network in 2016  
10. Welcomes the progress made by the Climate Technology Centre and Network in 
2016 in implementing its programme of work, and the increased demand for technical 
assistance and other services of the Climate Technology Centre and Network;  
11. Notes that the Climate Technology Centre and Network may  play a key role in 
supporting the developing country Parties, at their request, to implement technology action 
plans, including through the Request Incubator Programme for the least developed country 
Parties;5 
12. Encourages  the Global Environment Facility an d the Climate Technology Centre to 
enhance their collaboration with respect to exploring new ways of supporting climate 
technology related requests for technical assistance;  
13. Underlines  the importance of well -functioning and strengthened collaboration 
betw een the national designated authorities for the Green Climate Fund, the focal points for 
the Global Environment Facility and the national designated entities for technology 
development and transfer;  
14. Notes that the Climate Technology Centre and Network face s challenges that need 
attention regarding sustainable funding for implementing its functions and that further 
financial support should be provided to it;  
15. Welcomes the increased engagement between the Green Climate Fund and the 
Climate Technology Centre an d Network, particularly with respect to utilizing the 
Readiness and Preparatory Support Programme and the Project Preparation Facility of the 
fund in order to respond to country -driven requests for technical assistance;  
16. Encourages  the advancement of the en gagement referred to in paragraph 15 above, 
including through the strengthening of collaboration between national designated 
authorities for the Green Climate Fund and national designated entities for technology 
development and transfer;  
17. Invites  the Climat e Technology Centre and Network to include the outcomes of the 
engagement referred to in paragraphs 15 and 16 above in its annual report to the 
Conference of the Parties at its twenty -third session . 
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2016 
                                                           
 5 FCCC/SB/2016/1, paragraph 106 . FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.2  
 7 Decision 1 6/CP.22  
  Third comprehensive review of the implementation of the 
framework for capacity -building in developing countries 
under the Convention  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling decisions 2/CP.7, 1/CP.21, and 14/CP.21,  
Reaffirming that capacity -building should be a participatory, country -driven and 
continuous process consistent with national priorities and circumstances,  
Also reaffirming that capacity -building is an integral comp onent of the means of 
implementation to enable developing country Parties to implement the Convention and the 
Paris Agreement,  
Noting with appreciation  the technical paper prepared by the secretariat on the third 
comprehensive review of the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in 
developing countries,1 
Recognizing the active engagement of a wide spectrum of stakeholders, including 
State and non -State actors, in planning, implementing and monitoring activities with 
capacity -building componen ts, 
Also recognizing the significant increase of information on capacity -building 
activities made available by Parties, international organizations, the operating entities of the 
Financial Mechanism, United Nations specialized agencies and other institutions,  
Noting with appr eciation  the success of the 5th meeting of the Durban Forum for in -
depth discussion on capacity -building, held during the forty -fourth session of the 
Subsidiary Body for Implementation,  
Noting the significant participation of non -State actors in the 5th meeting of the 
Durban Forum and their useful contributions to the discussions,  
Also noting good practices in capacity -building that foster country -driven processes, 
country ownership, South –South cooperation, participatory as well as iterative approaches 
to capacity -building,  
1. Recognizes  that, while the objective and scope of capacity -building in developing 
countries as contained in decision 2/CP.7 are still relevant, current and emerging areas in 
the context of the Convention and the Paris Agreement should also be taken into account in 
the further implementation of the framework for capacity -building in developing countries;  
2. Recalls that the Paris Committee on Capacity -building aims to address both current 
and emerging gaps and needs in implementing capacity -building in developing country 
Parties and to further enhance capacity -building efforts, including with regard to coherence 
and coordination in capacity -building activities under the Convention;  
3. Invites  Parties to consider how to enhance existing reporti ng on the impacts of 
capacity -building activities, good practices and lessons learned and on how these are fed 
back into relevant processes to enhance the implementation of capacity -building activities;  
                                                           
 1 FCCC/TP/2016/1 . FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.2  
8  4. Also invites  the Paris Committee on Capacity -building , in managing the 2016 –2020 
workplan:  
(a) To take into consideration cross -cutting issues such as gender responsiveness, 
human rights and indigenous peoples’ knowledge;  
(b) To take into consideration the outcomes of the third comprehensive review of 
the implemen tation of the framework for capacity -building in developing countries;  
(c) To take into consideration previous work undertaken on indicators for 
capacity -building;  
(d) To promote and explore linkages with other constituted bodies under the 
Convention and the Paris  Agreement, as appropriate, that include capacity -building in their 
scopes;  
(e) To promote and explore synergies for enhanced collaboration with 
institutions outside the Convention and the Paris Agreement engaged in implementing 
capacity -building activities;  
(f) To take into consideration ways of enhancing reporting on capacity -building 
activities, taking into account  all initiatives, actions and measures on capacity -building 
under the Convention and the Paris Agreement as well as existing reporting mandates, in 
order to achieve coherence and coordination;  
5.  Further invites  Parties to foster networking and enhance their collaboration 
with academia and research centres, with a view to promoting individual, institutional and 
systemic capacity -building through educati on, training and public awareness;  
6.  Invites the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to facilitate complementarity 
between the Durban Forum and the Paris Committee on Capacity -building;  
7.  Also invites  Parties to cooperate in order to enhance the capacity of 
developing country Parties to implement the Convention and the Paris Agreement, and 
further invites  developed country Parties to enhance support for capacity -building actions 
in developing country Parties;  
8.  Further i nvites  relevant intergovernmental and no n-governmental 
organizations, as well as the private sector, academia and other stakeholders, to continue 
incorporating into their work programmes the scope of needs referred to in paragraph 1 
above as contained in decision 2/CP.7;   
9.  Invites  United Nations  agencies, multilateral organizations and relevant 
admitted observer organizations engaged in providing capacity -building support to 
developing countries to provide information to the secretariat to be uploaded on the 
capacity -building portal;2 
10.  Also invites Parties to submit, by 9 March 2017, their views on potential 
topics for the 6th meeting of the Durban Forum; 3 
11.  Further invites Parties to submit, by 9 March 2017, their views on the fourth 
review of the implementation of the framework for cap acity -building in countries with 
economies in transition, to be conducted at the forty -sixth session of the Subsidiary Body 
for Implementation (May 2017) and concluded at the twenty -third session of the 
Conference of the Parties (November 2017); 4  
                                                           
 2 Available at < http://unfccc.int/capacitybuilding/core/activities.html >. 
 3 Parties should submit their views via the submissions portal at <http://www.unfccc.int/5900>.  
 4 As footnote 3 above.  FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.2  
 9 12.  Decide s to conclude the third comprehensive review of the implementation of 
the framework for capacity -building in developing countries under the Convention and to 
initiate the fourth comprehensive review thereof at the fiftieth session of the Subsidiary 
Body fo r Implementation (June 2019) , with a view to completing th at review at the twenty -
fifth session of the Conference of the Parties (November 2019);  
13.  Takes note  of the budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken by 
the secretariat pursuant to th e provisions contained in paragraph 4  above;  
14.  Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be 
undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources.  
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2016 FCCC/CP/2016/10/Add.2  
10  Decision 1 7/CP.22  
  Improving the effectiveness of the Doha work programme on 
Article 6 of the Convention  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  Articles 4 and 6 of the Convention , 
Also recalling  decisio ns 15/CP.18, 19/CP.20 and 15/CP.21 , 
Further recalling  Article 12 of the Paris Agreement, which states that Parties shall 
cooperate in taking measures, as appropriate, to enhance climate change education, 
training, public awareness, public participation and public access to information, 
recognizing the import ance of these steps with respect to enhancing climate change 
adaptation and mitigation actions under the Agreement , 
Recognizing  that ensuring the availability of sufficient financial and technical 
resources continues to be a challenge for the adequate impl ementation of Article 6 of the 
Convention for all Parties, particularly developing countr y Parties,  
Reaffirming  the key role that youth, women and civil  society organizations play in 
the implementation of Article 6 of the Convention , 
Acknowledging  the valu able support provided by international organizations, 
including the members of the United Nations Alliance on Climate Change Education, 
Training and Public Awareness, in strengthening international cooperation to scale up all 
elements of Article 6 of the C onvention, including through the implementation of regional, 
national and local projects , 
Having completed  the intermediate review of the Doha work programme on Article 
6 of the Convention , 
1. Recognizes  that progress has been made by Parties and other relevant stakeholders in 
planning, coordinating and implementing climate change education, training, public 
awareness, public participation and public access to information, as well as international 
cooperation on these matters ;  
2. Encourages  Parties to cont inue to promote the systematic integration of gender -
sensitive and participatory education, training, public awareness, public participation and 
public access to information into all mitigation and adaptation activities implemented under 
the Convention, as  well as under the Paris Agreement, including into the implementation of 
their nationally determined contributions and the formulation of long -term low greenhouse 
gas emission development strategies ; 
3. Also encourages  Parties to foster the participation of r elevant stakeholders in all 
mitigation and adaptation activities implemented under the Convention ; 
4. Urges  Parties, intergovernmental organizations, non -governmental organizations, 
academia, research institutions, the private sector, state and local governme nts and youth to 
continue to implement policies and activities pursuant to Article 6 of the Convention ; 
5. Invites  Parties to enhance cross -sectoral coordination among all ministries dealing 
with climate change and ministries with responsibilities for educati on, training, public 
awareness and international cooperation ; FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.2  
 11 6. Encourages  Parties to submit information as part of their national communications, 
and where possible in other reporting under the Convention , on their actions taken to 
implement the Doha work p rogramme on Article 6 of the Convention and to share their 
experiences and best practices for the purpose of reviewing the Doha work programme in 
2020, noting that the six elements of Article 6 of the Convention provide a useful guide for 
such reporting ; 
7. Also e ncourages  Parties that have not already done so to designate a national focal 
point for Article 6 of the Convention and to inform the secretariat accordingly ; 
8. Welcomes  the initiative of the Government of Morocco, as the host of the twenty -
second sessi on of the Conference of the Parties and the  twelfth session of the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol, to organize an 
education day  during those sessions;  
9.  Encourages the p residencies of subsequent session s to hold similar thematic events 
related to Article 6 of the Convention  to that referred to in paragraph 8 above;  
10. Invites  multilateral and bilateral institutions and organizations, including operating 
entities of the Financial Mechanism, to provide, or to  continue to provide, financial 
resources to support activities related to the implementation of Article 6 of the Convention ; 
11. Requests  the Global Environment Facility to continue to provide financial resources 
to Parties not included in Annex I to the Conv ention, in particular African countries, the 
least developed countries and small island developing States, in order to support activities 
related to the implementation of Article 6 of the Convention ; 
12. Invites  relevant international organizations, including United Nations organizations, 
such as the members of the United Nations Alliance on Climate Change Education, 
Training and Public Awareness, and the United Nations regional commissions, to continue 
supporting Parties and stakeholders in the implementation of the Doha work programme 
by: 
(a) Organizing regional and subregional multi -stakeholder workshops on 
Article  6 of the Convention to facilitate a regular exchange of views, good practices and 
lessons learned ; 
(b) Providing technical and financial support for enhan cing the implementation 
of the Doha work programme ; 
(c) Supporting the development of national strategies on Article 6 of the 
Convention ; 
(d) Disseminating information and resource materials, as well as good practices, 
on the six elements of Article 6 of the Conve ntion ; 
13. Requests  the secretariat:  
(a) To continue facilitating a regular exchange of views, good practices and 
lessons learned among the national focal points for Article 6 of the Convention ; 
(b) To organize workshops, videoconferences and activities at the intern ational 
and regional levels in order to build and strengthen the existing skills and capacity of the 
national focal points for Article 6 of the Convention, taking into account opportunities to 
integrate such efforts into workshops held by relevant  bodies  under the Convention;  
(c) To explore ways to develop linkages, synergies and alignment with technical 
assistance activities being organized in the context of the work of relevant bodies under the 
Convention, including the in -session Dialogues  on Action for Clim ate Empowerment;  FCCC/CP/2016/10/Add.2  
12  (d) To continue collaborating with admitted observer organizations, other 
stakeholders and international organizations, such as the members of the United Nations 
Alliance on Climate Change Education, Training and Public Awareness, with a view to 
catalysing further action in fulfilment of Article 6 of the Convention ; 
(e) To continue its work on the United Nations Joint Framework Initiative on 
Children, Youth and Climate Change in order to enhance the involvement and participation 
of youth in activit ies related to Article 6 of the Convention ; 
(f) To cease the maintenance and development of the climate change 
information network clearing house CC:iN et and to integrate its featured content into other 
UNFCCC web -based resources and communication activities, including the UNFCCC 
website, the UNFCCC Newsroom and multiple UNFCCC social media outlets, as a way to 
enhance the implementation of Article 6 of the Convention ; 
(g) To continue to collect the contact details of the nominated national focal 
points for Article 6 of the Convention and to update the designated UNFCCC web  page ; 
(h) To organize, in collaboration with the Government of Morocco, a multi -
stakeholder education day to showcase and galvanize good practices in i mplementing the 
Doha work programme ; 
14. Decides  that efforts related to the implementation of Article 6 of the Convention 
shall be referred to as Action for Climate Empowerment ; 
15. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undert aken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraph 1 3 above ; 
16. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources . 
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2016FCCC/CP/2016/10/Add.2  
 13   Decision 1 8/CP.22  
  Outcome of the first round of the international assessment 
and review process (2014 –2015)  
 The Conference of the Parties , 
Noting that the Subsidiary Body for Implementation has concluded i ts consideration 
of the outcome of the first round of the international assessment and review process 
referred to in decision 2/CP.17, annex II, paragraph 12 , 
 Recalling  decision 2/CP.17, paragraph 26 , 
1. Welcome s the implementation of the first round of the international assessment and 
review  process, as outlined in decision 2/CP.17, annex II, paragraph 3;  
2. Invite s Parties1 to submit by 1  March 2017 their views on the revision of the 
modalities and procedures for international assessment and review  on the basi s of the 
experience gained in the first round of international assessment and review ;  
3. Request s the Subsidiary Body for Implementation  to revise  the modalities and 
procedures  for international assessment and review  on the basis of the experience gained in 
the first round of international assessment and review, taking into account  any submissions 
received  from Parties , with a view to recommending revised modalities and procedures for 
consideration and adoption at the twenty -third session of the Conference of  the Parties  
(November 2017).  
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2016
                                                           
 1 Parties should submit their views via the submissions portal at < http://www.unfccc.int/5900 >.  FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.2  
14  Decision 1 9/CP.22  
  Implementation of the global observing system for climate  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  Article 4, paragraph 1(g) and (h), and Article 5 of the Convention,  
Also recalling decisions 8/CP.3, 14/CP.4, 5/CP.5, 11/CP.9, 5/CP.10,  9/CP.15,  
Further recalling  Article 7 of the Paris Agreement,  
Noting the important role of the Global Climate O bserving System in meeting the 
need for climate observation and climate services under the Convention,  
Recognizing the importance of and continued need for capacity -building  to support 
systematic observation,  
1. Welcomes  the 2016 implementation plan of the Global Climate Observing System , 
The Global Observing System for Climate: Implementation Needs  (hereinafter referred to as 
the implementation plan ),1 submitted by the secretariat of the Global Climate Observing 
System  and prepared under the guidance of the  Global Climate Observing System  Steering 
Committee;  
2. Also welcomes  the contributions by organizations and experts to the implementation 
plan;  
3. Notes  that the Global Climate Observing System  considered the outcomes of the 
twenty -first session of the Conferen ce of the Parties when preparing the implementation 
plan;2  
4. Notes with appreciation  the assessment of climate -related observations that the 
implementation plan provides for multiple uses;  
5. Notes the introduction of new essential climate variables3 and the plan’s wider 
consideration of atmospheric, oceanic and terrestrial observation requirements and their 
connection to mitigation and adaptation, particularly early warning systems, including the 
relationship of the essential climate variables to the  Earth’s water, carbon and energy 
cycles ; 
6. Encourages  Partie s to work towards the full implementation of the implementation 
plan and to consider what actions they can take to contribute towards its implementation;  
7. Invites  United Nations agencies and interna tional organizations to support the full 
implementation of the implementation plan, as appropriate;  
8. Emphasizes , with regard to the implementation plan,  the need to maintain, 
strengthen and build capacities for climate observations , monitoring and  data management, 
including data rescue, digitization, analysis , archiving and sharing;  
                                                           
 1 Available at < http://unfccc.int/file s/science/workstreams/systematic_observation/application/pdf/  
gcos_ip_10oct2016.pdf > and <http://gcos.wmo.int>.  
 2 See document FCCC/SBSTA/2015/5, paragraph 28 . 
 3 The new essential climate variables identified in the implementation plan  are: lightning, ocean surface 
stress, ocean surface heat flux, nitrous oxide, marine habitat properties, land surface temperature and 
greenhouse gas fluxes. The full list of essential climate variables is contained in table 1 of the 
implementation plan.  FCCC/CP/2016/10/Add.2  
 15 9. Also emphasizes  the need to build capacity in developing countries through existing 
relevant mechanisms, including the Global Climate Observing System  Cooperation  
Mechanism . 
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2016 FCCC/CP/2016/10/Add.2  
16  Decision 20/CP.22  
  Work of the Consultative Group of Experts on National 
Communications from Parties not included in Annex I to the 
Convention  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling the relevant provisions of the Convention, in particular Article 4, 
paragraphs 1, 3 and 7, and Article 12, paragraphs 1, 4, 5 and 7,  
Also recalling decisions 3/CP.8, 17/CP.8, 1/CP.16, 2/CP.17 and 19/CP.19,  
Acknowledging the contributions of the Consultative Gr oup of Experts on National 
Communications from Parties not included in Annex I to the Convention to enhancing 
capacity -building and participation in measurement, reporting and verification 
arrangements for developing countries under the Convention ,  
Noting  the progress made by the Consultative Group of Experts as reflected in its 
2016 progress report,   
Also n oting that the Consultative Group of Experts was mandated to continue for a 
period of five years from 2014 to 2018,  
Having reviewed the mandate and te rms of reference of the Consultative Group of 
Experts,  
1. Decides that the mandate and terms of reference of the Consultative Group of 
Experts on National Communications from Parties not included in Annex I to the 
Convention as contained in decision 19/CP.19  and the annex thereto shall remain 
unchanged;  
2. Requests the Subsidiary Body for Implementation, at its forty -eighth session (April –
May 2018), to consider a review of the term and mandate, including the terms of reference, 
of the Consultative Group of Experts with a view to recommending a draft decision thereon 
for consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -fourth session 
(December 2018);  
3. Requests the secretariat to facilitate the actions of the Consultative Group of Exper ts 
called for in paragraph 1 above, subject to the availability of financial resources.  
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2016 FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.2  
 17 Decision 21/CP.22  
  Gender  and climate change  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  decisions 36/CP.7, 1/CP.16, 23/CP.18, 18/CP.20 and 1/CP .21 and the 
Paris Agreement , 
Underscoring  the importance of coherence between gender -responsive climate 
policies and the balanced participation of women and men in the Convention process and 
the provisions of international instruments and outcomes such as the Convention on the 
Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women,1 the Beijing Declaration and 
Platform for Action2 and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development,3 
Noting  that, notwithstanding the progress made by Parties in implementing the 
decisions referred to above, there is a need for women to be represented in all aspects of 
the Convention process, including through membership of their national delegations and 
the chairin g and facilitation of formal and informal negotiating groups,  
Acknowledging with appreciation the important role of the two -year Lima work 
programme on gender in the incorporation of a gender perspective in the work of the 
Parties and the secretariat in im plementing the Convention,  
Noting with appreciation the contributions received in support of the work 
undertaken so far,  
Also noting  that gender -responsive climate policy still requires further strengthening 
in all activities concerning adaptation, mitigat ion and related means of implementation 
(finance, technology development and transfer and capacity -building) as well as decision -
making on the implementation of climate policies,  
1. Welcomes the report by the secretariat on the in -session workshop on gender -
responsive climate policy with a focus on adaptation, capacity -building and training for 
delegates on gender issues,4 which was held during the forty -fourth sessions of the 
subsidiary bodies;  
2. Notes with appreciation  the submissions from Parties and observers as input for the 
workshop referred to in paragraph 1 above ; 
3. Takes note  of the report by the secretariat on the gender composition of constituted 
bodies established under the Convention and its Kyoto Protocol,5 and the urgent need to 
improve the representation of women in all of the bodies established under the Convention, 
the Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement;  
4. Urges Parties to enhance their efforts in advancing the implementation of decisions 
36/CP.7, 1/CP.16, 23/CP.18 and 18/CP.20;  
                                                           
 1 United Nations General Assembly resolution A/RES/34/180, “Convention on the Elimination of All 
Forms of Discrimination against Women”.  
 2 United Nations , Beijing Declaration and Platform of Action, adopted at the Fourth World Conference 
on Women, 27 Octo ber 1995.  
 3 United Nations General Assembly resolution A/RES/70/1, “Transforming our world: the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development”.  
 4 FCCC/SBI/2016/10.  
 5 FCCC/CP/2016/4.  FCCC/CP/2016/10/Add.2  
18  5. Takes note of the submissions from Parties and observers on possible elements and 
guiding principles for continuing and enhancing the Lima work programme on gender,6 
including information from Parties on progress made toward s achieving the goals of gender 
balance and gender -responsive climate policy in response to the invitation contained in 
decision 18/CP.20, paragraph 1;  
6. Decides  to continue and enhance the Lima work programme on gender for a period 
of three years as set out  in paragraphs 7 –30 below and to undertake, at the twenty -fifth 
session of the Conference of the Parties (November 2019), a review of the work 
programme;  
7. Invites  Parties to continue to assist:  
(a) Training and awareness -raising for female and male delegates o n issues 
related to gender balance and climate change;  
(b) Building the skills and capacity of their female delegates to participate 
effectively in UNFCCC meetings through training on, inter alia, negotiation skills, the 
drafting of legal documents and strateg ic communication;  
8. Also invites  Parties and relevant organizations to continue to assist the activities 
referred to in paragraph 7 above, with a special focus on training and capacity -building for 
delegates from Parties that are particularly vulnerable to t he adverse effects of climate 
change;  
9. Requests the secretariat to continue to support the organization of the training and 
capacity -building efforts referred to in paragraphs 7 and 8 above, inter alia, in conjunction 
with sessions of the subsidiary bodies;  
10. Invites  Parties to increase the representation and active participation of women in the 
bodies established under the Convention;  
11. Decides  that annual in -session workshops will be held in conjunction with the 
sessions of the subsidiary bodies in the first s essional period of 2018 and 2019;  
12. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to elaborate the topics for the 
workshops referred to in paragraph 11 above during 2017 and to report on the topics that it 
recommends for the workshops to the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -third session 
(November 2017);  
13. Also requests  the secretariat to prepare a technical paper identifying entry points for 
integrating gender considerations in workstreams under the UNFCCC process for 
consideration by the Subsidiary B ody for Implementation at its forty -eighth session (April –
May 2018);  
14. Further requests  all constituted bodies under the UNFCCC process to include in 
their regular reports information on progress made towards integrating a gender perspective 
in their process es according to the entry points identified in the technical paper referred to 
in paragraph 13 above;  
15. Requests  the secretariat to prepare biennial synthesis reports on the information 
contained in the reports referred to in paragraph 14 above for considera tion by the 
Conference of the Parties, with the first biennial synthesis report to be prepared for the 
consideration of the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -fifth session (November 2019);  
                                                           
 6 Submissions from Parties are available at <http://www.unfccc.int/5900>. Submissions from observers 
are available at <http://www.unfccc.int/7478>. FCCC/CP/2016/ 10/Add.2  
 19 16. Encourages  Parties and the secretariat to take into considera tion a gender 
perspective in the organization of the technical expert meetings on mitigation and 
adaptation, in accordance with decision 1/CP.21, paragraphs 111 and 129;  
17. Invites Parties to mainstream a gender perspective in the enhancement of climate 
techn ology development and transfer;  
18. Requests the secretariat, if  updating the accreditation process for the Parties , to 
improve, as appropriate, the accuracy of data on the gender of the participants as a means of 
provid ing accurate data to assess progress made on the participation of women delegates in 
UNFCCC meetings and those of constituted bodies;  
19. Also requests  the secretariat to continue to prepare an annual report on gender 
composition in accordance with decisions 23/CP.18 and 18/CP.20;  
20. Further requests  the secretariat to undertake research and analysis on challenges to 
the full and equal participation of women in climate -related processes and activities and to 
prepare a technical paper on achieving the goal of gender balance as mandated by decisions 
36/C P.7, 1/CP.16 and 23/CP.18, based on submissions and its own research for 
consideration by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -third session;  
21. Requests  the Financial Mechanism and its operating entities to include in their 
respective annual reports t o the Conference of the Parties information on the integration of 
gender considerations in all aspects of their work;  
22. Invites  Parties to appoint and provide support for a national gender focal point for 
climate negotiations, implementation and monitoring;  
23. Encourages  Parties, when reporting on their climate policies under the UNFCCC 
process, to include information on how they are integrating gender considerations into such 
policies;  
24. Also encourages  Parties to integrate local and traditional knowledge in the 
formulation of climate policy and to recognize the value of the participation of grassroots 
women in gender -responsive climate action at all levels;  
25. Requests  the secretariat to maintain and regularly update its web pages7 for sharing 
information on women’s  participation and on gender -responsive climate policy ;  
26. Invites  Parties and non -Party stakeholders to share information on their work related 
to integrating a gender perspective in the activities and work under the Convention, the 
Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement;  
27. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to develop a gender action plan in 
order to support the implementation of gender -related decisions and mandates under the 
UNFCCC process, which may include priority areas, key activities and indicators, timelines 
for implementation, the responsible and key actors and indicative resource requirements for 
each activity, and further elaborate its process of review and monitoring;  
28. Invites  Parties, members of constituted bodies, United Nations organizations, 
observers and  other stakeholders to consult through meetings, prior to the forty -sixth 
sessions of the subsidiary bodies (May 2017), in order to provide inputs to the formulation 
of the gender action plan referred to in paragraph 27 above;  
29. Requests the secretariat to c onvene, in cooperation with Parties and interested 
observers and other stakeholders, an in -session workshop during the forty -sixth sessions of 
the subsidiary bodies to develop possible elements of the gender action plan referred to in 
                                                           
 7 <http://unfccc.int/gender_and_climate_change/items/7516.php >. FCCC/CP/2016/10/Add.2  
20  paragraph 27 above fo r consideration by the Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its 
forty -seventh session (November 2017);  
30. Invites  submissions from Parties, observers and other stakeholders, by 25 January 
2017, on their views on the matters to be addressed at the in -session workshop referred to 
in paragraph 29 above;8 
31. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in this decision;  
32. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources ; 
33. Invites  Parties and relevant organizations to participate and engage in implementing 
gender -related activities within the work programme.  
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2016
                                                           
 8 Parties should submit their views via the submission portal at <http://www.unfccc.int/5900>. 
Observers and other s takeholders should e -mail their submissions to <secretariat@unfccc.int> . FCCC/CP/2016/10/Add.2  
 21 Decision 2 2/CP.22  
  Financial and budgetary matters  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  decision 12/CP.15, table 2, in relation to the possible upgrading of the 
position of Assistant Secretary -General to Under -Secretary -General and the possible 
upgrading of one position from D -2 to Assistant Secretary -General level,  
Also recalling decision 22/CP.21 on the programme budget for the biennium  
2016 –2017,  
Taking note of the Secretary -General’s proposal to the Bureau of the Conference of 
the Parties made in February 2016 to upgrade the position of Executive Secretary from 
Assistant Secretary -General to Under -Secretary -General,  
Noting that the Bureau welcomed and endors ed the proposal of the Secretary -
General , 
Taking note of the Secretary -General’s decision to upgrade one of the D -2 positions 
included in the approved staffing table to the level of Assistant Secretary -General to serve 
as Deputy Executive Secretary and to implement this decision once the new Executive 
Secretary assumes office,  
1. Approves  that the upgrade of the current Assistant Secretary -General position  to the 
level of Under -Secretary -General be reflected in the approved staffing table for the 
biennium 201 6–2017 ; 
2. Decides that any additional costs resulting from the approval in paragraph 1 above 
and the upgrading of a D -2 position will be absorbed from existing resources available 
under the approved programme budget for the biennium 2016 –2017;  
3. Also decides  that one of the three D -2 positions contained in the approved staffing 
table for the biennium 2016 –2017 shall be abolished as soon as the Deputy Executive 
Secretary assumes office at the level of Assistant Secretary -General . 
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2016 FCCC/CP/2016/10/Add.2  
22  Decision 2 3/CP.22  
Administrative, financial and institutional matters  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling decision 22/CP.21 , through  which the programme budget for the 
biennium 2016–2017 was approved,   
Also recalling paragraph 11 of the financial procedures for the Conference of the 
Parties  to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, its subsidiary 
bodies and its perm anent secretariat ,1 
Having considered the information contained in the documents prepared by the 
secretariat on administrative, financial and institutional matters ,2 
I. Budget performance for the biennium 2016 –2017  
1. Takes note  of the information contained in the report on budget performance for the 
period 1 January 201 6 to 30 June 201 6,3 the note on the  status of contributions to the trust 
funds administered by the secretariat  as at 21 October  20164 and the note on the revised 
indicative contributions for the biennium 2016 –2017;5  
2. Expresses  its appreciation  to Parties that made contributions to the core budget in a  
timely manner;  
3. Expresses concern  regarding the high level of outstanding contributions to the core 
budget for the c urrent and previous bienniums which has resulted in difficulties with cash 
flow;  
4. Strongly urges  Parties that have not made contributions in full to the core budget for 
the current and/or previous bienniums to do so without further delay;  
5. Calls upon  Parties to make their contributions to the core budget for the year 2017 in 
a timely manner, bearing in mind that contributions are due on 1 January of each year in 
accordance with the financial procedures for the Conference of the Parties ; 
6. Requests  the s ecretariat to explore options on ways to address outstanding 
contributions to the core budget, for the consideration of the Subsidiary Body for 
Implementation at its forty -sixth session (May 2017);  
7. Expresses its appreciation  for the contributions to the Tr ust Fund for Participation in 
the UNFCCC Process and to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities received from the 
Parties;  
8. Urges  Parties to further contribute to the Trust Fund for Participation in the 
UNFCCC Process, in order to ensure the widest poss ible participation in the negotiations in 
2017, and to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities;  
                                                           
 1 Annex I to decision 15/CP.1 . 
 2 FCCC/SBI/2016/13 , FCCC/SBI/2016 /INF.12 and Add.1 , FCCC/SBI/2016/INF.14 , 
FCCC/SBI/2016/INF.15  and FCCC/SBI/2016/INF.19 . 
 3 FCCC/SBI/2016/13 . 
 4 FCCC/SBI/2016/INF.19 . 
 5 FCCC/SBI/2016/INF.15 . FCCC/ CP/2016/10/Add.2  
 23 9. Requests  the secretariat to explore options for increasing the flexibility of the funds 
in the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities, for the consideratio n of the Subsidiary 
Body for Implementation at its forty -sixth session ; 
10. Reiterates  its appreciation  to the Government of Germany for its annual voluntary 
contribution to the core budget of EUR 766,938 and its special contribution of EUR 
1,789,522 as Host G overnment of the secretariat;  
11. Adopts  the revised scale of contribution s for 2016 –2017  contained in the annex;  
II. Audit report and financial statements for 2015  
12. Takes note  of the audit report of the United Nations Board of Auditors6 and the 
financial statements for 2015, which include recommendations, and the comments of the 
secretariat thereon;  
13. Expresses its appreciation  to the United Nations for arranging the audits of the 
accounts of the Convention and for valuable observations and recommendations of the 
auditors;  
14. Urges the Executive Secretary to implement the recommendations of the auditors, as 
appropriate ; 
III. Other financial matters  
15. Takes note  of the information contained in the note on the range of options for 
improving the effic iency and transparency of the UNFCCC budget process, and in the note 
on the evolving functions and operations of the secretariat in the light of decision 1/CP.21 ; 
16. Welcomes the Executive Secretary’s advance dialogue with Parties on the 
programme budget for the biennium 2018 –2019;  
17. Also welcomes  the Executive Secretary’s initiative to take an integrated approach to 
the development of the programme budget taking into account the  core budget and 
activities to be funded from voluntary contributions;  
18. Requests  the Executive Secretary to gradually enhance the transparency of the 
budget process through the provision of  additional documentation, as outlined in document 
FCCC/SBI/2016/INF.14, paragraph 17, in the official  budget documents ; 
19. Also requests the Executiv e Secretary to pursue other possible ways to increase the 
efficiency and transparency of the budget process as outlined in document 
FCCC/SBI/2016/INF.14, paragraphs 32 –37; 
20. Takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertake n 
by the secretariat pursuant to the provisions contained in paragraph s 18 and 1 9 above ; 
21. Requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources . 
 
                                                           
 6 FCCC/SBI/2016/INF.12 . FCCC/CP/2016/10/Add.2  
24  Annex  
[English only]  
Trust Fund for the Core Budget of the UNFCCC (Convention): revised 
indicative contributions for the biennium 2016 –2017 in euros  
Party   
United Nations 
revised scale of 
assessments  
2016–2018   
UNFCCC revised 
indicative scale of 
contributions for 
2016  UNFCCC revised 
indicative scale of 
contributions for 
2017  
Afghanistan  0.006a 0.006  0.006  
Albania  0.008  0.008  0.008  
Algeria  0.161  0.157  0.157  
Andorra  0.006  0.006  0.006  
Angola  0.010  0.010  0.010  
Antigua and Barbuda  0.002  0.002  0.002  
Argentina  0.892  0.870  0.870  
Armenia  0.006  0.006  0.006  
Australia  2.337  2.279  2.278  
Austria  0.720  0.702  0.702  
Azerbaijan  0.060  0.058  0.058  
Bahamas  0.014  0.014  0.014  
Bahrain  0.044  0.043  0.043  
Bangladesh  0.010  0.010  0.010  
Barbados  0.007  0.007  0.007  
Belarus  0.056  0.055  0.055  
Belgium  0.885  0.863  0.863  
Belize  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Benin  0.003  0.003  0.003  
Bhutan  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Bolivia ( Plurinational State of)  0.012  0.012  0.012  
Bosnia and Herzegovina  0.013  0.013  0.013  
Botswana  0.014  0.014  0.014  
Brazil  3.823  3.727  3.727  
Brunei Darussalam  0.029  0.028  0.028  
Bulgaria  0.045  0.044  0.044  
Burkina Faso  0.004  0.004  0.004  
Burundi  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Cabo Verde  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Cambodia  0.004  0.004  0.004  
Cameroon  0.010  0.010  0.010  
Canada  2.921  2.848  2.848  FCCC/CP/2016/10/Add.2  
 25 Party   
United Nations 
revised scale of 
assessments  
2016–2018   
UNFCCC revised 
indicative scale of 
contributions for 
2016  UNFCCC revised 
indicative scale of 
contributions for 
2017  
Central African Republic  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Chad  0.005  0.005  0.005  
Chile  0.399  0.389  0.389  
China  7.921  7.723  7.722  
Colombia  0.322  0.314  0.314  
Comoros  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Congo  0.006  0.006  0.006  
Cook Islands  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Costa Rica  0.047  0.046  0.046  
Côte d’Ivoire  0.009  0.009  0.009  
Croatia  0.099  0.097  0.097  
Cuba  0.065  0.063  0.063  
Cyprus  0.043  0.042  0.042  
Czech ia 0.344  0.335  0.335  
Democratic People’s  
Republic of Korea  0.005  0.005  0.005  
Democratic Republic of  
the Congo  0.008  0.008  0.008  
Denmark  0.584  0.569  0.569  
Djibouti  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Dominica  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Dominican Republic  0.046  0.045  0.045  
Ecuador  0.067  0.065  0.065  
Egypt  0.152  0.148  0.148  
El Salvador  0.014  0.014  0.014  
Equatorial Guinea  0.010  0.010  0.010  
Eritrea  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Estonia  0.038  0.037  0.037  
Ethiopia  0.010  0.010  0.010  
European Union  2.500  2.500  2.500  
Fiji 0.003  0.003  0.003  
Finland  0.456  0.445  0.445  
France  4.859  4.737  4.737  
Gabon  0.017  0.017  0.017  
Gambia  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Georgia  0.008  0.008  0.008  
Germany  6.389  6.229  6.229  
Ghana  0.016  0.016  0.016  
Greece  0.471  0.459  0.459  FCCC/CP/2016/10/Add.2  
26  Party   
United Nations 
revised scale of 
assessments  
2016–2018   
UNFCCC revised 
indicative scale of 
contributions for 
2016  UNFCCC revised 
indicative scale of 
contributions for 
2017  
Grenada  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Guatemala  0.028  0.027  0.027  
Guinea  0.002  0.002  0.002  
Guinea –Bissau  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Guyana  0.002  0.002  0.002  
Haiti  0.003  0.003  0.003  
Honduras  0.008  0.008  0.008  
Hungary  0.161  0.157  0.157  
Iceland  0.023  0.022  0.022  
India  0.737  0.719  0.719  
Indonesia  0.504  0.491  0.491  
Iran (Islamic Republic of)  0.471  0.459  0.459  
Iraq 0.129  0.126  0.126  
Ireland  0.335  0.327  0.327  
Israel  0.430  0.419  0.419  
Italy 3.748  3.654  3.654  
Jamaica  0.009  0.009  0.009  
Japan  9.680  9.438  9.437  
Jordan  0.020  0.019  0.019  
Kazakhstan  0.191  0.186  0.186  
Kenya  0.018  0.018  0.018  
Kiribati  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Kuwait  0.285  0.278  0.278  
Kyrgyzstan  0.002  0.002  0.002  
Lao People’s Democratic Republic  0.003  0.003  0.003  
Latvia  0.050  0.049  0.049  
Lebanon  0.046  0.045  0.045  
Lesotho  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Liberia  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Libya  0.125  0.122  0.122  
Liechtenstein  0.007  0.007  0.007  
Lithuania  0.072  0.070  0.070  
Luxembourg  0.064  0.062  0.062  
Madagascar  0.003  0.003  0.003  
Malawi  0.002  0.002  0.002  
Malaysia  0.322  0.314  0.314  
Maldives  0.002  0.002  0.002  
Mali  0.003  0.003  0.003  FCCC/CP/2016/10/Add.2  
 27 Party   
United Nations 
revised scale of 
assessments  
2016–2018   
UNFCCC revised 
indicative scale of 
contributions for 
2016  UNFCCC revised 
indicative scale of 
contributions for 
2017  
Malta  0.016  0.016  0.016  
Marshall Islands  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Mauritania  0.002  0.002  0.002  
Mauritius  0.012  0.012  0.012  
Mexico  1.435  1.399  1.399  
Micronesia (Federated States of)  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Monaco  0.010  0.010  0.010  
Mongolia  0.005  0.005  0.005  
Montenegro  0.004  0.004  0.004  
Morocco  0.054  0.053  0.053  
Mozambique  0.004  0.004  0.004  
Myanmar  0.010  0.010  0.010  
Namibia  0.010  0.010  0.010  
Nauru  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Nepal  0.006  0.006  0.006  
Netherlands  1.482  1.445  1.445  
New Zealand  0.268  0.261  0.261  
Nicaragua  0.004  0.004  0.004  
Niger  0.002  0.002  0.002  
Nigeria  0.209  0.204  0.204  
Niue  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Norway  0.849  0.828  0.828  
Oman  0.113  0.110  0.110  
Pakistan  0.093  0.091  0.091  
Palau  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Panama  0.034  0.033  0.033  
Papua New Guinea  0.004  0.004  0.004  
Paraguay  0.014  0.014  0.014  
Peru 0.136  0.133  0.133  
Philippines  0.165  0.161  0.161  
Poland  0.841  0.820  0.820  
Portugal  0.392  0.382  0.382  
Qatar  0.269  0.262  0.262  
Republic of Korea  2.039  1.988  1.988  
Republic of Moldova  0.004  0.004  0.004  
Romania  0.184  0.179  0.179  
Russian Federation  3.088  3.011  3.011  
Rwanda  0.002  0.002  0.002  FCCC/CP/2016/10/Add.2  
28  Party   
United Nations 
revised scale of 
assessments  
2016–2018   
UNFCCC revised 
indicative scale of 
contributions for 
2016  UNFCCC revised 
indicative scale of 
contributions for 
2017  
Saint Kitts and Nevis  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Saint Lucia  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Samoa  0.001  0.001  0.001  
San Marino  0.003  0.003  0.003  
Sao Tome and Principe  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Saudi Arabia  1.146  1.117  1.117  
Senegal  0.005  0.005  0.005  
Serbia  0.032  0.031  0.031  
Seychelles  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Sierra Leone  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Singapore  0.447  0.436  0.436  
Slovakia  0.160  0.156  0.156  
Slovenia  0.084  0.082  0.082  
Solomon Islands  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Somalia  0.001  0.001  0.001  
South Africa  0.364  0.355  0.355  
South Sudan  0.003  0.003  0.003  
Spain  2.443  2.382  2.382  
Sri Lanka  0.031  0.030  0.030  
State of Palestineb 0.007  0.000  0.007  
Sudan  0.010  0.010  0.010  
Suriname  0.006  0.006  0.006  
Swaziland  0.002  0.002  0.002  
Sweden  0.956  0.932  0.932  
Switzerland  1.140  1.111  1.111  
Syrian Arab Republic  0.024  0.023  0.023  
Tajikistan  0.004  0.004  0.004  
Thailand  0.291  0.284  0.284  
The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia  0.007  0.007  0.007  
Timor –Leste  0.003  0.003  0.003  
Togo  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Tonga  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Trinidad and Tobago  0.034  0.033  0.033  
Tunisia  0.028  0.027  0.027  
Turkey  1.018  0.993  0.992  
Turkmenistan  0.026  0.025  0.025  
Tuvalu  0.001  0.001  0.001  FCCC/CP/2016/10/Add.2  
 29 Party   
United Nations 
revised scale of 
assessments  
2016–2018   
UNFCCC revised 
indicative scale of 
contributions for 
2016  UNFCCC revised 
indicative scale of 
contributions for 
2017  
Uganda  0.009  0.009  0.009  
Ukraine  0.103  0.100  0.100  
United Arab Emirates  0.604  0.589  0.589  
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland  4.463  4.351  4.351  
United Republic of Tanzania  0.010  0.010  0.010  
United States of America  22.000  21.449  21.448  
Uruguay  0.079  0.077  0.077  
Uzbekistan  0.023  0.022  0.022  
Vanuatu  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)  0.571  0.557  0.557  
Viet Nam  0.058  0.057  0.057  
Yemen  0.010  0.010  0.010  
Zambia  0.007  0.007  0.007  
Zimbabwe  0.004  0.004  0.004  
Total  102.509  100.000  100.000  
a   For presentation purposes, all figures of the United Nations revised scale of assessments and of the UNFCCC 
revised indicative scale of contributions are given to three decimal places . 
b   The State of Palestine became a Party to the Convention on 17 March 2016 . 
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2016 FCCC/CP/2016/10/Ad d.2 
30  Decision 2 4/CP.22  
  Dates and venues of future sessions  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  Article 7, paragraph 4, of the Convention,  
Also recalling United Nations General Assembly resolution 40/243 of 18 December 
1985 on the pattern of conferences,  
Further recalling rule 22, paragraph 1, of the draft rules of procedure being applied 
regarding the rotation of the office of President among the five regional groups,  
Recalling rule 3 of the draft rules of procedure being applied, which provides that 
the sessions of the Conference of the Parties shall take place at the seat of the  secretariat, 
unless the Conference of the Parties decides otherwise or other appropriate arrangements 
are made by the secretariat in consultation with the Parties,  
I. Dates and venues of future sessions  
A. 2017  
1. Notes  that, in keeping with the principle of rotat ion among regional groups, the 
President to be elected at the sessions to be held from 6 to 17 November 2017 would come 
from the Asia -Pacific States;  
2. Expresses its appreciation for the nomination received from the Asia -Pacific States 
of a representative of  the Government of Fiji to serve as President at the sessions referred to 
in paragraph 1 above;  
3. Decides that the sessions referred to in paragraph 1 above will be convened at the 
seat of the secretariat;  
4. Requests the Executive Secretary to make the neces sary arrangements for convening 
the sessions referred to in paragraph 1 above at the seat of the secretariat;  
5. Acknowledges  that organizing sessions of the supreme bodies of the Convention at 
the seat of the secretariat requires special arrangements, inclu ding those for the funding of 
such sessions;  
6. Notes  the high costs associated with convening sessions of the supreme bodies of the 
Convention and requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to consider this matter at 
its forty -sixth session (May 2017) i n the context of arrangements for intergovernmental 
meetings;  
B. 2018  
7. Decides to adjust the previously agreed dates1 of the sessions in the second sessional 
period in 2018 to Monday, 3 December, to Friday, 14 December 2018;  
                                                           
 1 Decision 28/CP.19.  FCCC/CP/2016/10/Add.2  
 31 8. Notes that in keeping with the pri nciple of rotation among regional groups, the 
President of the sessions referred to in paragraph 7 above would come from the Eastern 
European States;  
9. Decides to accept with appreciation the offer by the Government of Poland to host 
the sessions referred to  in paragraph 7 above;   
10. Requests the Executive Secretary to consult with the Government of Poland and to 
negotiate and finalize a Host Country Agreement for convening the sessions in conformity 
with United Nations General Assembly resolution 40/243 and in compliance with the 
provisions of the United Nations administrative instruction ST/AI/342, with a view to 
concluding and signing the Host Country Agreement not later than the twenty -third session 
of the Conference of the Parties (November 2017) to allow for its prompt  implementation;  
11. Also requests the Executive Secretary to provide the host country with technical 
support and guidance on UNFCCC polices and requirements, taking into account the issues 
raised by Parties regarding the organization  of such sessions, and to report back regularly to 
the Bureau;  
C. 2019  
12. Notes  that, in keeping with the principle of rotation among regional groups, the 
President to be elected at the sessions to be held from 11 to 22 November 2019 would come 
from the Latin American and Caribbean States;  
13. Invites Parties to undertake further consultations on the hosting of the sess ions 
referred to in paragraph 12  above;  
14. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation , at its forty -sixth session , to 
consider the issue of the host of the sessions referred to in parag raph 12  above and to 
recommend a draft decision on this matter for consideration and adoption by the 
Conference of the Parties at its twenty -third session;  
II. Calendar of meetings of the Convention and Kyoto Protocol 
bodies  
15. Decid es to adopt the following dates for the sessional periods in 2021:  
(a) First sessional period: Monday, 31 May, to Thursday, 10 June;  
(b) Second sessional period: Monday, 8 November, to Friday, 19 November.  
10th plenary meeting  
18 November 2016 FCCC/CP/2016/10/Add.2  
32  Decision 2 5/CP.22  
  Rules of procedure of the Conference of the Parties serving 
as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Taking note of Articles 16 and 18 of the Paris Agreement,  
Also taking note of decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 8,   
Having considered the relevant recommendations of the Ad Hoc Working Group on 
the Paris Agreement at the second part of its resumed first session,  
 Recommends that the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties 
to the Paris Agreement, at its first session, adopt the draft decision contained below.  
Draft d ecision -/CMA.1  
Rules of procedure of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeti ng of th e Parties to the Paris Agreement  
The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement,  
Recalling Articles 16 and 18 of the Paris Agreement ,  
Decides that when applying the draft rules of procedure of the Confe rence of the 
Parties,1 pursuant to Article 16, paragraph 5, of the Paris Agreement, it should be 
understood that : 
(a) With respect to draft rules 22 –26, the term of office of any replacement 
officer elected by and from among Parties to the Paris Agreement in a ccordance with 
Article 16, paragraph 3, and Article 18, paragraph 3, of the Paris Agreement would expire 
at the same time as that of the officer being replaced;  
(b) With  respect to draft rules 17 –21: 
(i) The credentials of representatives of Parties to the Paris Agreement would 
apply to their representatives participating in sessions of the Conference of the 
Parties  and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the P arties to the 
Paris Agreement ; 
(ii) A single report on credentials would be submitted for approval, following 
established procedures, by the Bureau of the Conference of the Parties to the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement;  
  
                                                           
 1 See document FCCC/CP/1996/2.  FCCC/CP/2016/10/Add.2  
 33 (c) With  respect  to draft rules 6 and 7:  
(i) Organizations admitted as observers to previous sessions of the Conference 
of the Parties would be admitted  to the first session of the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement;  
(ii) A singl e process would be used for the admission of observer organizations 
to sessions of the Conference of the Parties and the Conference of the Parties serving 
as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement, with decisions on the 
admission of observer org anizations being taken by the Conference of the Parties.  
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2016 FCCC/CP/2016/10/Add.2  
34  Resolution 1 /CP.22  
  Expression of gratitude to the Government of the Kingdom of 
Morocco and the people of Marrakech  
Draft resolution submitted by Fiji 
The Conference of the Parties , the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  and the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement , 
Having met  in Marrakech from 7 to 18 November 2016 at the invitation of the 
Government of the Kingdom of Morocco,  
1. Express  their profound gratitude  to the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco  for 
having made it possible for the twent y-second  session of the Conference of the Parties , the 
twelfth  session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Kyoto Protocol and the first session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties  to the Paris Agreement to be held in Marrakech;  
2. Request  the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco  to convey to the city and 
people of Marrakech  the gratitude of the Conference of the Parties , the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Part ies to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement for the hospitality 
and warmth extended to the participants.  
10th plenary meeting  
18 November 2016  
    
  
 
GE.19 -03298(E)  

Conference of the Parties  
  Report of the Conferenc e of the Parties on its twenty -fourth  
session, held in Katowice  from 2 to 15 Dece mber 201 8 
Addendum  
 Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -
fourth  session  
Contents  
  Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties  
Decision  Page 
  1/CP.24  Preparations for the implementation of the Paris Agreement and  
the first session of the Conference of the Parties serving as  
the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  ............................   2 
  2/CP.24  Local Communities and Indigenous Peoples Pl atform  .....................   9 
  3/CP.24  Long -term climate finance  ................................ ................................   12 
  4/CP.24  Report o f the Standing Committee on Finance  ................................ .  14 
  5/CP.24  Report of the Green Climate Fund to the Conference of the Parties  
and g uidance to the Green Climate  Fund  ................................ ..........   29 
  6/CP.24  Report of the Global Environment Facility to the Conference of  
the Parties and guidance to the Global Environment Facility  ...........   32 
  7/CP.24  Modalities, work programme and functions under the Convention  
of the forum on the impact of the implementation of response  
measures  ................................ ................................ ...........................   34 
  8/CP.24  National adaptation plans  ................................ ................................ .  35 
  9/CP.24  Report of the Adaptation  Committee  ................................ ................   38 
  10/CP.24  Report of the Executive Committee of the Warsaw International  
Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated with Climate Change  
Impacts  ................................ ................................ .............................   40 
  11/CP.24  Review of the terms of reference of the Consultative Group of  
Experts on National Communications from Parties not included in  
Annex I to the Convention  ................................ ................................   46  
United Nations  FCCC /CP/2018/10/Add.1  
  
Distr.: General  
19 March  2019  
 
Original: English  
FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
2   Decision 1/CP.24  
Preparations for the implementation of the Paris Agreement 
and the first sessio n of the Conference of the Parties serving 
as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  the Paris Agreement, adopted under the Convention,  
Also recalling decisions 1/CP.21, 1/CP.22, 1/CP.23, 1/CMA.1 and 3/CM A.1, 
Further recalling decisions 6/CP.1, 6/CP.2, 25/CP.7, 5/CP.13, 12/CP.20 and 
10/CP.21,  
 Recalling , in particular, decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 91, in which the Ad Hoc 
Working Group on the Paris Agreement was requested to develop recommendations for 
modalities, procedures and guidelines in accordance with Article 13, paragraph 13, of the 
Paris Agreement, and to define the year of their first and subsequent review and update, as 
appropriate, at regular intervals, for consideration by the Conference of the Parties at its 
twenty -fourth session with a view to forwarding them to the Conference of the Parties serving 
as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement for consideration and adoption at its first 
session,  
 Also recalling , in particular,  decis ion 1/CP.21, paragraph 98, in which it was decided 
that the modalities, procedures and guidelines of the enhanced transparency framework under 
the Paris Agreement shall build upon and eventually supersede the measurement, reporting 
and verification system established by decision 1/CP.16, paragraphs 40 –47 and 60 –64, and 
decision 2/CP.17, paragraphs 12 –62, immediately following the submission of the final 
biennial reports and biennial update reports,  
I. Paris Agreement work programme  
1. Congratulates  Parties that h ave ratified, accepted, approved or acceded to the Paris 
Agreement;  
2. Expresses  its appreciation  to the subsidiary and constituted bodies for their work on 
the implementation of the work programme under the Paris Agreement pursuant to decisions 
1/CP.21, 1/CP .22 and 1/CP.23;  
3. Reaffirms that, in the context of nationally determined contributions to the global 
response to climate change, all Parties are to undertake and communicate ambitious efforts 
as defined in Articles 4, 7, 9, 10, 11 and 13 of the Paris Agree ment with a view to achieving 
the purpose of this Agreement as set out in its Article 2;  
4. Decides  to forward the following draft decisions for consideration and adoption by 
the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agr eement at 
the third part of its first session:1  
Matters relating to Article 4 of the Paris Agreement and paragraphs 22 –35 of decision 
1/CP.21  
(a) Draft decision -/CMA.1 titled “Further guidance in relation to the mitigation 
section of decision 1/CP.21” ( now decision 4/CMA.1 );  
                                                           
 1  In addition to the draft decisions listed, draft decision -/CMA.1 titled “Common time frames for 
nationally determined contributions referred to in Article 4, paragr aph 10, of the Paris Agreement” 
(now decision 6/CMA.1) and draft decision -/CMA.1 titled “Ways of enhancing the implementation 
of education, training, public awareness, public participation and public access to information so as to 
enhance actions under th e Paris Agreement” (now decision 17/CMA.1) were forwarded by the 
Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its forty -ninth session  and at its forty -eighth session, 
respectively, for consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties serving as the mee ting 
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at the third part of its first session.  FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
 3 (b) Draft decision -/CMA.1 titled “Modalities and procedures for the operation 
and use of a public registry referred to in Article 4, paragraph 12, of the Paris Agreement” 
(now decision 5/CMA.1 ); 
(c) Draft decision -/CMA.1 titled “Modalities, work programme and functions 
under the Paris Agreement of the forum on the impact of the implementation of response 
measures” ( now decision 7/CMA.1 ); 
Matters relating to Article 6 of the Paris Agreement and paragraphs 36 –40 of decision 
1/CP.21  
(d) Draft decisi on -/CMA.1 titled “Matters relating to Article 6 of the Paris 
Agreement and paragraphs 36 –40 of decision 1/CP.21” ( now decision 8/CMA.1 ); 
Matters relating to Article 7 of the Paris Agreement and paragraphs 41, 42 and 45 of decision 
1/CP.21  
(e) Draft decision -/CMA.1 titled “Further guidance in relation to the adaptation 
communication, including, inter alia, as a component of nationally determined contributions, 
referred to in Article 7, paragraphs 10 and 11, of the Paris Agreement” ( now decision 
9/CMA.1 ); 
(f) Draft  decision -/CMA.1 titled “Modalities and procedures for the operation 
and use of a public registry referred to in Article 7, paragraph 12, of the Paris Agreement” 
(now decision 10/CMA.1 ); 
(g) Draft decision -/CMA.1 titled “Matters referred to in paragraphs 41,  42 and 45 
of decision 1/CP.21” ( now decision 11/CMA.1 ); 
Matters relating to Article 9 of the Paris Agreement and paragraphs 52 –64 of decision 
1/CP.21  
(h) Draft decision -/CMA.1 titled “Identification of the information to be provided 
by Parties in accordance with Article 9, paragraph 5, of the Paris Agreement” ( now decision 
12/CMA.1 ); 
(i) “Modalities for the accounting of financial resources provided and mobilized 
through public interventions in accordance with Article 9, paragraph 7, of the Paris 
Agreement”;2 
(j) Draft decision -/CMA.1 titled “Matters relating to the Adaptation Fund” ( now 
decision 13/CMA.1 ); 
Matters relating to Article 10 of the Paris Agreement and paragraphs 66 –70 of decision 
1/CP.21  
(k) Draft decision -/CMA.1 titled “Technology framework under Article 1 0, 
paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreement” (now decision 15/CMA.1);  
(l) Draft decision -/CMA.1 titled “Scope of and modalities for the periodic 
assessment referred to in paragraph 69 of decision 1/CP.21” ( now decision 16/CMA.1 ); 
Matters relating to Article 13 of the Paris Agreement and paragraphs 84 –98 of decision 
1/CP.21  
(m) Draft decision -/CMA.1 titled “Modalities, procedures and guidelines for the 
transparency framework for action and support referred to in Article 13 of the Paris 
Agreement” ( now decision 18/CMA.1 );3 
                                                           
 2  The outcome on this matter is incorporated in chapter V of the annex to draft decision -/CMA.1 titled 
“Modalities, procedures and guidelines for the transparency framework for action and support 
referred to in Article 13 of the Paris Agreement” (adopted as  decision 18/CMA.1).  
 3  As footnote 2 above.  FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
4  Matters relating to Article 14 of the Paris Agreement and paragraphs 99 –101 of decision 
1/CP.21  
(n) Draft decision -/CMA.1 titled “Matters relating to Article 14 of the Paris 
Agreement  and paragraphs 99 –101 of decision 1/CP.21 ” (now decision 19/CMA.1 ); 
Matters relating to Article 15 of the Paris Agreement and paragraphs 102 and 103 of 
decision 1/CP.21  
(o) Draft decision -/CMA.1 titled “Modalities and procedures for the effective 
operation of the committee to facilitate implementation and promote compliance r eferred to 
in Article 15, paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement” ( now decision 20/CMA.1 ); 
5. Also decides  that the work of the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris Agreement 
conducted in accordance with decision 1/CP.21 has been completed;  
II. High -level ministerial d ialogue on climate finance  
6. Welcomes the third high -level ministerial dialogue on climate finance, convened in 
accordance with decision 3/CP.19, paragraph 13;  
7. Notes  that the dialogue highlighted progress in and remaining barriers to translating 
climate fina nce needs into action and enhancing developing countries’ access to climate 
finance;  
8. Welcomes with appreciation  the pledges and announcements of Parties, including 
pledges to the Green Climate Fund, the Least Developed Countries Fund and the Adaptation 
Fund, and of international financial institutions, which provide further clarity to and 
predictability of climate finance flows to 2020;  
9. Also welcomes  with appreciation  the 2018 Biennial Assessment and Overview of 
Climate Finance Flows of the Standing Committ ee on Finance, in particular its key findings 
and recommendations highlighting the increase in climate finance flows from developed 
country Parties to developing country Parties;4 
10. Notes  that the dialogue underscored the urgent need to scale up the mobiliza tion of 
climate finance, including through greater engagement of the private sector, to increase 
finance for adaptation, and to align financial flows with the objectives of the Paris Agreement 
and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals;  
11. Also not es that the dialogue highlighted the recently initiated replenishment process 
of the Green Climate Fund as a clear opportunity for enhancing ambition, as well as the 
importance of transparency and predictability of climate finance, clear eligibility criter ia for 
funding and strong national policy and regulatory frameworks to enhance the mobilization 
of and access to climate finance;  
12. Further notes that the President of the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -fourth 
session will summarize the deliberatio ns of the dialogue for consideration by the Conference 
of the Parties at its twenty -fifth session ( December  2019) in accordance with decision 
3/CP.19, paragraph 13;  
III. Implementation and ambition  
13. Notes with concern the current, urgent and emerging needs relat ed to extreme weather 
events and slow onset events in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the 
adverse effects of climate change;  
14. Stresses the urgency of enhanced ambition in order to  ensure the highest possible 
mitigation and adaptation efforts by all Parties;  
                                                           
 4 FCCC/CP/2018/8, annex II.  FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
 5 15. Recognizes  the urgent need to enhance the provision of finance, technology and 
capacity -building support by developed country Parties, in a predictable manner, to enable 
enhance d action by developing country Parties;  
Pre-2020  
16. Emphasizes that enhanced pre -2020 ambition can lay a solid foundation for enhanced 
post-2020 ambition;  
17. Congratulates  Parties that have accepted the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol;  
18. Underscores the urgen t need for the entry into force of the Doha Amendment and 
urges  Parties to the Kyoto Protocol that have yet to ratify the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto 
Protocol to deposit their instruments of acceptance with the Depositary as soon as possible;  
19. Welcomes the 2018 stocktake on pre -2020 implementation and ambition, and 
reiterates  its decision5 to convene another stocktake at its twenty -fifth session ; 
20. Urges developed country Parties to continue to scale up mobilized climate finance , 
recalling the commitment o f developed country Parties in the context of meaningful 
mitigation actions and transparency on implementation, to a goal of mobilizing jointly 
USD  100 billion per year by 2020 to address the needs of developing countries, in accordance 
with decision 1/CP. 16; 
Post-2020  
21. Reiterates  its invitation6 to Parties to communicate, by 2020, mid -century, long -term 
low greenhouse gas emission development strategies in accordance with Article 4, 
paragraph  19, of the Paris Agreement, and welcomes  the strategies that have  already been 
communicated;  
22. Also reiterates  its request7 to those Parties whose intended nationally determined 
contribution pursuant to decision 1/CP.20 contains a time frame up to 2025 to communicate 
by 2020 a new nationally determined contribution and to  do so every five years thereafter 
pursuant to Article 4, paragraph 9, of the Paris Agreement;  
23. Further r eiterates  its request8 to those Parties whose intended nationally determined 
contribution pursuant to decision 1/CP.20 contains a time frame up to 2030  to communicate 
or update by 2020 the contribution and to do so every five years thereafter pursuant to Article 
4, paragraph 9, of the Paris Agreement;  
IV. Special Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change  
24. Recognizes  the role of the Intergovernm ental Panel on Climate Change in providing 
scientific input to inform Parties in strengthening the global response to the threat of climate 
change in the context of sustainable development and efforts to eradicate poverty;  
25. Expresses  its appreciation and g ratitude to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change and the scientific community for responding to the invitation of the Conference of 
the Parties and providing the Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5 °C,9 reflecting the 
best available science;  
                                                           
 5  Decision 1/CP.23, paragraph 18.  
 6 Decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 35.  
 7 Decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 23.  
 8 Decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 24.  
 9  Intergovernmental Panel on Cli mate Change. 2018. Global Warming of 1.5 °C: An IPCC Special 
Report on the impacts of global warming of 1.5 °C above pre -industrial levels and related global 
greenhouse gas emission pathways in the context of strengthening the global response to the threat  of 
climate change, sustainable development, and efforts to eradicate poverty . Available at 
http://ipcc.ch/report/sr15/ . FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
6  26. Welcomes  the timely completion of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 
Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5  °C in response to the invitation from Parties in 
decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 21;  
27. Invites  Parties to make use of the information contain ed in the report referred to in 
paragraph 25 above in their discussions under all relevant agenda items of the subsidiary and 
governing bodies;  
28. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice to consider at 
its fiftieth session (June 2019) the report referred to in paragraph 25 above with a view to 
strengthening the scientific knowledge on the 1.5  °C goal, including in the context of the 
preparation of the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change and the  implementation of the Convention and the Paris Agreement;  
29. Encourages  Parties to continue to support the work of the Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change;  
V. Talanoa Dialogue  
30. Recalls  its decision10 to convene a facilitative dialogue among Parties in 2018  to take 
stock of the collective efforts of Parties in relation to progress towards the long -term goal 
referred to in Article 4, paragraph 1, of the Paris Agreement and to inform the preparation of 
nationally determined contributions pursuant to Article 4,  paragraph 8, of the Paris 
Agreement;  
31. Expresses  its appreciation  to the Presidents of the twenty -third and twenty -fourth 
sessions of the Conference of the Parties for their leadership in the organization, conduct and 
conclusion of the Talanoa Dialogue;  
32. Also expresses  its appreciation  to the people of Fiji and the Pacific region for having 
brought into the UNFCCC process the tradition of Talanoa, whose purpose is to share stories, 
build empathy and generate trust;  
33. Acknowledges  that the Talanoa Dialogue was a n inclusive and participatory process 
that incentivized exchanges between Parties and non -Party stakeholders following the Pacific 
tradition of Talanoa;  
34. Also acknowledges  that the Talanoa Dialogue took stock of the collective efforts of 
Parties in relatio n to progress towards the long -term goal referred to in Article 4, paragraph  1, 
of the Paris Agreement and provided information for the preparation of nationally determined 
contributions pursuant to Article 4, paragraph 8, of the Paris Agreement;  
35. Takes not e of the outcome, inputs and outputs11 of the Talanoa Dialogue and their 
potential to generate greater confidence, courage and enhanced ambition;  
36. Recognizes  the efforts and actions that Parties and non -Party stakeholders are 
undertaking to enhance climate action;  
37. Invites Parties to consider the outcome, inputs and outputs of the Talanoa Dialogue in 
preparing their nationally determined contributions and in their efforts to enhance pre -2020 
implementation and ambition;  
VI. Matters relating to the modalities, pro cedures and guidelines 
for the transparency framework for action and support 
referred to in Article 13 of the Paris Agreement  
38. Decides  that, pursuant to decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 98, for Parties to the 
Convention that are also Parties to the Paris Agreement, the final biennial reports shall be 
those that are submitted to the secretariat no later than 31 December 2022, and the final 
                                                           
 10  Decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 20.  
 11 For information on the outcome, inputs and outputs,  see https://talanoadialogue.com/ . FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
 7 biennial update reports shall be those that are submitted to the secretariat no later than 31 
December 2024;  
39. Reaffirms  that, consistently with decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 98, for Parties to the 
Paris Agreement, following the submission of the final biennial r eports and biennial update 
reports, the modalities, procedures and guidelines contained in the annex to decision 
18/CMA.1 will supersede the measurement, reporting and verification system established by 
decision 1/CP.16, paragraphs 40 –47 and 60 –64, and dec ision 2/CP.17, paragraphs 12 –62; 
40. Also reaffirms  the reporting obligations under Articles 4 and 12 of the Convention;  
41. Decides  in this context that, for Parties to the Paris Agreement, the biennial 
transparency reports, technical expert review and facilitat ive, multilateral consideration of 
progress prepared and conducted in accordance with the modalities, procedures and 
guidelines referred to in paragraph 39 above shall replace the biennial reports, biennial update 
reports, international assessment and revi ew, and international consultation and analysis 
referred to in decision 2/CP.17;  
42. Also decides  that, to fulfil national inventory reporting obligations under the 
Convention, Parties to the Paris Agreement submitting annual national inventory reports 
under the Convention shall use the modalities, procedures and guidelines for national 
inventory reports contained in chapter II of the annex to decision 18/CMA.1 by the date that 
the reports are first due under the Paris Agreement, with the technical expert revi ew to be 
conducted in accordance with the corresponding modalities, procedures and guidelines 
contained in chapter VII of the annex to decision 18/CMA.1, in place of the greenhouse gas 
inventory reporting guidelines contained in the annex to decision 24/CP .19 and the review 
guidelines in the annex to decision 13/CP.20, respectively, including in years in which a 
biennial transparency report is not due under the Paris Agreement;  
43. Further decides  that, with respect to the reporting and review of national 
comm unications under the Convention every four years, starting from the date that reports 
are first due under the Paris Agreement:  
(a) Parties may submit their national communication and biennial transparency 
report as a single report in accordance with the modali ties, procedures and guidelines 
included in the annex to decision 18/CMA.1 for information also covered by the national 
communication reporting guidelines contained in, as applicable, decisions 4/CP.5 and 
17/CP.8;   
(b) In addition, Parties shall include in the  report:  
(i) Supplemental chapters on research and systematic observation and on 
education, training and public awareness, in accordance with the guidelines contained 
in, as applicable, decisions 4/CP.5 and 17/CP.8;  
(ii) For those Parties that have not reported un der chapter IV of the annex to 
decision 18/CMA.1, an additional chapter on adaptation, in accordance with the 
relevant guidelines contained in, as applicable, decisions 4/CP.5 and 17/CP.8;   
(c) For those Parties whose national communications are subject to rev iew under 
decision 13/CP.20, the review shall be conducted in accordance with the relevant guidelines 
contained in chapter VII of the annex to decision 18/CMA.1, and shall also include a review 
of the information submitted under paragraph 43(b) above, in a ccordance with relevant 
guidance in decision 13/CP.20, as applicable;  
44. Reiterates  that for Parties to the Convention that are not Parties to the Paris 
Agreement, reporting obligations under Articles 4 and 12 of the Convention and existing 
measurement, repor ting and verification arrangements under the Convention shall continue 
to apply, in accordance with relevant decisions, as applicable, and decides  that, to enhance 
comparability of information, those Parties may use the modalities, procedures and 
guideline s contained in the annex to decision 18/CMA.1, as well as the information referred 
to in paragraph 43(b) above with respect to national communications, to meet their reporting 
commitments under Articles 4 and 12 of the Convention, in lieu of guidance adopt ed under 
the Convention;  FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
8  45. Decides  that the technical annex referred to in decision 14/CP.19, paragraph 7, 
containing modalities for measuring, reporting and verifying the activities referred to in 
decision 1/CP.16, paragraph 70, shall be submitted as an ann ex to the biennial transparency 
report;  
46. Also decides  that the technical analysis referred to in decision 14/CP.19, paragraph  11, 
containing modalities for measuring, reporting and verifying the activities referred to in 
decision 1/CP.16, paragraph 70, shal l be carried out concurrently with the technical expert 
review under Article 13 of the Paris Agreement;  
VII. Leaders’ Summit  
47. Welcomes the participation of Heads of State and Government in the Leaders’ Summit 
convened in Katowice on 3 December 2018;  
48. Notes the Solidarity and Just Transition Silesia Declaration,12 which recognizes the 
need to take into account the imperatives of a just transition of the workforce and the creation 
of decent work and quality jobs;  
VIII.  United Nations Climate Summit 2019  
49. Welcomes the ini tiative of the United Nations Secretary -General to convene the 2019  
Climate Summit;  
50. Calls on Parties to participate in the Summit and to demonstrate, through such 
participation, their enhanced ambition in addressing climate change;  
IX. Administrative and budg etary matters  
51. Takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in this decision;  
52. Requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.   
9th plenary meeting  
15 December 2018  
 
                                                           
 12  Available at https://cop24.gov.pl/presidency/initiatives/just -transition -declaratio n/. FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
 9   Decision 2 /CP.24  
  Local Communities and Indigenous Peoples Platform  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  the Charter of the United Nations and United Nations General Assembly 
resolution 66/288,  
 Also recalling the Paris Agreement,  decision 1/CP.21 and decision 2/CP.23,  
 Emphasizing  that the purpose and functions of the Local Communities and Indigenous 
Peoples Platform and its Facilitative Working Group will be carried out consistent with 
international law,  
 Also emphasizing , in its entirety, the United Nations Declaration on the Rig hts of 
Indigenous Peoples in the context of the implementation of the functions of the Local 
Communities and Indigenous Peoples Platform involving indigenous peoples,  
 Further emphasizing that in the context of the implementation of the functions of the 
Local Communities and Indigenous Peoples Platform involving local communities, none of 
the activities should authorize or encourage any action, which will dismember or impair, 
totally or in part, the territorial integrity or political unity of sovereign and independent States,  
1. Decides to establish  the Local Communities and Indigenous Peoples Platform 
Facilitative Working Group;  
2. Affirms  that the Facilitative Working Group is established with the objective of further 
operationalizing the Local Communities and Indigenous Peoples Platform and facilitating 
the implementation of its functions;  
3. Decides  that the Facilitative Working Group shall comprise 14 representatives, as 
follows:  
(a) One representative of a Party from each of the five United Nations regional 
groups;  
(b) One representative of a Party from a small island developing State;  
(c) One representative of a least developed country Party;  
(d) Seven representatives from indigenous peoples organizations, one from each 
of the seven United Nations indigenous sociocultural regi ons; 
4. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice to consider, in 
the context of the review referred to in paragraph 27 below, and taking into account progress 
related to the representation of local communities, the addition of at l east three additional 
representatives to represent local communities, as well as a process for the appointment of 
such representatives, and an equal number of Party representatives, with a view to 
recommending a draft decision on the representation of loca l communities on the Local 
Communities and Indigenous Peoples Platform for consideration and adoption by the 
Conference of the Parties at its twenty -seventh session (November 2021);  
5. Decides  that Party representatives shall be appointed by their respective regional 
groups and constituencies, and that the Chair of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and 
Technological Advice shall be notified of these appointments;  
6. Also decides  that indigenous peoples representatives shall be appointed by the 
indigenous peoples , through their focal points, and that the Chair of the Subsidiary Body of 
Scientific Technological Advice shall be notified of these appointments;  
7. Further decides  that, along with each representative, one alternate may be designated, 
in accordance with th e appointment process referred to in paragraphs 3 –6 above; the alternate 
representative will participate in meetings when the representative is unable to attend, and 
will replace the representative for the remainder of the term if the representative cannot  
complete the functions of the assigned office;  FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
10  8. Decides  that representatives of the Facilitative Working Group shall serve for a term 
of three years and shall not be eligible to serve two consecutive terms, and that the 
representatives shall remain in offi ce until their successors have been elected;  
9. Also decides that the Facilitative Working Group shall elect annually two co -chairs 
and two vice co -chairs from among its representatives to serve for a term of one year each, 
with one co -chair and one vice co -chair being a representative from a Party and the other 
co-chair and vice co -chair being a representative from indigenous peoples and, as 
appropriate, local communities;  
10. Further decides  that the election and rotation of the co -chairs and vice co -chairs will 
take into account regional geographic balance, and strive for gender balance;  
11. Decides  that if one of the co -chairs is temporarily unable to fulfil the obligations of 
the office, the r espective vice co -chair shall serve as the co -chair;  
12. Also decides  that if one of the co -chairs or vice co -chairs is unable to complete the 
term of office, the Facilitative Working Group shall elect a replacement to complete that term 
of office, in accordan ce with paragraphs 9 and 10 above;  
13. Invites  Parties to promote the engagement of local communities in the Local 
Communities and Indigenous Peoples Platform with a view to enhancing their participation 
in the Facilitative Working Group and the Platform;  
14. Stresses the importance of striving for gender balance in the appointment processes 
of representatives in accordance with decisions 36/CP.7, 23/CP.18 and 3/CP.23;  
15. Decides  that the Facilitative Working Group shall operate on the basis of consensus;  
16. Invites  Parties, local communities and indigenous peoples to take into consideration 
the Local Communities and Indigenous Peoples Platform and its functions at the local, 
national and regional level in order to enhance the engagement and inclusion of indigenous 
peoples and local communities to facilitate the exchange of experience and the sharing of 
best practices and lessons learned on mitigation and adaptation in a holistic and integrated 
manner;  
17. Decides  that the Facilitative Working Group shall meet twice per ye ar in conjunction 
with the sessions of the subsidiary bodies and the session of the Conference of the Parties;  
18. Also decides  that the Facilitative Working Group, under the incremental approach, 
will propose an initial two -year workplan for the period 2020 –2021 for implementing the 
functions of the Local Communities and Indigenous Peoples Platform for consideration by 
the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice at its fifty -first session 
(December  2019);  
19. Further decides  that the workplan refer red to in paragraph 18 above should take into 
account experiences from any activities that have already taken place under the Local 
Communities and Indigenous Peoples Platform, and that the workplan may include annual 
in-session events in conjunction with the sessions of the Conference of the Parties and the 
Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice, on which summary reports, which 
could be of a technical nature, would be prepared by the Facilitative Working Group;  
20. Encourages  the Facilitative Working Group to collaborate with other bodies under 
and outside the Convention, as appropriate, aiming at enhancing the coherence of the actions 
of the Local Communities and Indigenous Peoples Platform under the Convention;  
21. Requests  the secretariat, with the support of the Facilitative Working Group, to make 
the work of the Local Communities and Indigenous Peoples Platform widely accessible, 
including through the development of a dedicated web portal on the Local Communities and 
Indigenous Peoples Platform  on the UNFCCC website;  
22. Also requests  the secretariat to organize a thematic in -session workshop, in 
conjunction with the fiftieth session (June 2019) of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and 
Technological Advice, on enhancing the participation of local c ommunities, in addition to 
indigenous peoples, in the Local Communities and Indigenous Peoples Platform;  FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
 11 23. Further requests  the secretariat to develop, under the incremental approach for the 
operationalization of the Local Communities and Indigenous Peoples Platform, activities 
related to the implementation of all three functions of the Platform,1 at each session of the 
Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice until the workplan is adopted, and 
invites  Parties, observers and other stakeholders to submit their views on possible activities 
via the submission portal2 by 28 February 2019;   
24. Requests  the Facilitative Working Group to report on its outcomes, including a draft 
second three -year workplan, and on the activities of the Local Communities an d Indigenous 
Peoples Platform, for consideration by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -seventh 
session through the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice at its fifty -
fourth session (May –June 2021);  
25. Decides  to endorse the draft w orkplan referred to in paragraph 24 above at its twenty -
seventh session;  
26. Requests the secretariat to make the report s referred  to in paragraph 24 above publicly 
available on the UNFCCC website;  
27. Decides that the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice will review 
the outcomes and activities of the Facilitative Working Group, taking into account the report s 
referred to in paragraph 24 above, at its fifty -fourth session and make recommendati ons to 
the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -seventh session with a view to the Conference of 
the Parties adopting a decision on the outcome of this review;  
28. Also decides that the initial mandate for the Facilitative Working Group will span 
three year s, to be extended as determined by the review referred to in paragraph 27 above;  
29. Further decides  that the meetings of the Facilitative Working Group shall be open to 
Parties and observers under the Convention;  
30. Requests  the secretariat to support and facili tate the work of the Facilitative Working 
Group;  
31. Takes note of  the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraph 30 above;  
32. Requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this dec ision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources;  
33. Invites  interested Parties and organizations to provide financial and technical support, 
as appropriate, for the implementation of the functions of the Local Communities and 
Indigenous  Peoples Platform.  
 
7th plenary meeting  
13 December 2018  
                                                           
 1 Paragraph 6(a –c) of decision 2/CP.23.  
 2 https://unfccc.int/submissions_and_statements . FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add. 1 
12    Decision 3 /CP.24  
  Long -term climate finance  
The Conference of the  Parties , 
Recalling Articles 4 and 11 of the Convention,  
Also recalling decision 1/CP.16, paragraphs 2, 4 and 97 –101, as well as decisions 
1/CP.17, 2/CP.17, paragraphs 126 –132, 4/CP.18, 3/CP.19, 5/CP.20, 5/CP.21, 7/CP.22 and 
6/CP.23,  
1. Welcomes with apprecia tion the 2018 Biennial Assessment and Overview of Climate 
Finance Flows of the Standing Committee on Finance, in particular its key findings and 
recommendations highlighting the increase in climate finance flows from developed country 
Parties to developing  country Parties;1 
2. Also welcomes  with appreciation  the continued progress of developed country Parties 
towards reaching the goal of mobilizing jointly USD 100 billion annually by 2020, in the 
context of meaningful mitigation action and transparency on impl ementation, in accordance 
with decision 1/CP.16;  
3. Recalls  the commitment of developed country Parties, in the context of meaningful 
mitigation action and transparency on implementation, to a goal of mobilizing jointly 
USD  100 billion per year by 2020 to add ress the needs of developing country Parties in 
accordance with decision 1/CP.16, and urges  developed country Parties to continue to scale 
up mobilized climate finance towards achieving this goal;  
4. Urges  developed country Parties to continue their efforts t o channel a substantial share 
of public climate funds to adaptation activities and to strive to achieve a greater balance 
between finance for mitigation and for adaptation, recognizing the importance of adaptation 
finance and the need for public and grant -based resources for adaptation;  
5. Welcomes the biennial submissions received to date from developed country Parties 
on their strategies and approaches for scaling up climate finance from 2018 to 2020 in 
accordance with decision 3/CP.19, paragraph 10,2 and urges those developed country Parties 
that have not yet done so to submit this information;  
6. Requests  the secretariat, in line with decision 5/CP.20, paragraph 11, to prepare a 
compilation and synthesis of the biennial submissions referred to in paragraph 5 above in 
order to inform the in -session workshops referred to in paragraph 9 below;  
7. Welcomes the progress of Parties’ efforts to strengthen their domestic enabling 
environments in order to attract climate finance, and requests  Parties to continue to enhance 
their enabling environments and policy frameworks to facilitate the mobilization and 
effect ive deployment of climate finance in accordance with decision 3/CP.19;  
8. Notes with appreciation  the summary report3 on the 2018 in -session workshop on 
long-term climate finance, and invites  Parties and relevant institutions to consider the key 
messages the rein; 
9. Decides  that the in -session workshops on long -term climate finance in 2019 and 2020 
will focus on:  
(a) The effectiveness of climate finance, including the results and impacts of 
finance provided and mobilized;  
(b) The provision of financial and technical su pport to developing country Parties 
for their adaptation and mitigation actions in relation to holding the increase in the global 
                                                           
 1  FCCC/CP/2018/8 , annex II.  
 2  Available at https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx . 
 3  FCCC/CP/2018/4.  FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
 13 average temperature to well below 2 ºC above pre -industrial levels and pursuing efforts to 
limit the temperature increase to 1 .5 ºC above pre -industrial levels;  
10. Requests  the secretariat to organize the in -session workshops referred to in 
paragraph  9 above and to prepare summary reports on the workshops for consideration by 
the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -fifth session  (December  2019) and twenty -sixth 
session (November 2020) respectively;  
11. Also requests  the secretariat to continue to ensure that the workshops are well -
balanced by, inter alia, inviting both public and private sector actors to attend them and 
summarizing t he views expressed at the workshops in a fair and gender -balanced manner;  
12. Welcomes  the third biennial high -level ministerial dialogue on climate finance, 
convened in accordance with decision 3/CP.19, and looks forward  to the summary of the 
Presidency of th e Conference of the Parties of the deliberations of the dialogue for 
consideration by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -fifth session;4 
13. Decides  that the fourth biennial high -level ministerial dialogue on climate finance, to 
be convened in 2020 i n accordance with decision 3/CP.19, will be informed by the reports 
on the in -session workshops on long -term climate finance and the 2020 Biennial Assessment 
and Overview of Climate Finance Flows.  
10th plenary meeting  
15 December 2018  
 
                                                           
 4  As per decision 7/CP.22, paragraph 16.  FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
14    Decision 4 /CP.24  
  Report of the Standing Committee on Finance  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  Articles 4 and 11 of the Convention,  
Also recalling  decisions 1/CP.16, paragraph 112, and 2/CP.17, paragraphs 120 
and 121, as well as decisions 5/CP.18, 7/CP.19, 6/CP.20, 6/CP.21, 8/CP.22 and 7/CP.23,  
1. Welcomes with appreciation the report of the Standing Committee on Finance to the  
Conferenc e of the Parties at its twenty -fourth session, taking note of the recommendations  
contained therein;1 
2. Endorses the workplan of the Standing Committee on Finance for 2019 ;2  
3. Welcomes with appreciation the 2018 Biennial Assessment and Overview of Climate 
Finance Flows of the Standing Committee on Finance,3 in particular the summary and 
recommendations as contained in the annex;  
4. Encourages  the Standing Committee on Finance to take into account the best available 
science in future biennial assessment s and ov erviews of climate finance flows;  
5. Requests  the Standing Committee on Finance to use in the biennial assessment and 
overview of climate finance flows the established terminology in the provisions of the 
Convention and the Paris Agreement in relation to cli mate finance, where applicable;  
6. Expresses its appreciation  for the financial contributions provided by the 
Governments of Belgium, Germany, Norway, the Republic of Korea, Switzerland and the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, as well as by the European 
Commission to support the work of the Standing Committee on Finance;  
7. Welcomes the 2018 Forum of the Standing Committee on Finance on the topic of 
climate finance architecture with a focus on enhancing collaboration and seizing 
opportunitie s, and takes note of the summary report4 on the Forum;  
8. Expresses its gratitude  to the Governments of the Netherlands, Norway and the 
Republic of Korea for their support in ensuring the success of the 2018 Forum of the Standing 
Committee on Finance;  
9. Welco mes the decision of the Standing Committee on Finance on the topic of its 2019 
Forum, which will be climate finance and sustainable cities ;  
10. Requests  the Standing Committee on Finance  to map, every four years, as part of its 
biennial assessment and overview of climate finance flows, the available information 
relevant to Article 2, paragraph 1(c), of the Paris Agreement, including its reference to 
Article  9 thereof;  
11. Encourages  the Stand ing Committee on Finance to provide input to the technical 
paper of the Executive Committee of the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and 
Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts on the sources of financial support;5 
12. Confirms  the mandates in Arti cle 11, paragraph 3(d), of the Convention, and 
decisions  12/CP.2, 12/CP.3, 5/CP.19 and 1/CP.21;  
13. Requests  the Standing Committee on Finance to prepare, every four years, a report on 
the determination of the needs of developing country Parties related to im plementing the 
Convention and the Paris Agreement, for consideration by the Conference of Parties, starting 
                                                           
 1 FCCC/CP/2018/8.  
 2 FCCC/CP/2018/8, annex VI.  
 3 https://unfccc.int/sites/default/files/resource/2018%20BA%20Technical%20Report%20Final.pdf .  
 4 FCCC/CP/2018/8, annex III.  
 5 FCCC/CP/2018/8, par agraph 14(g).  FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
 15 at its twenty -sixth session (November 2020), and the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement, startin g at its third session (November 2020) ;  
14. Also requests  the Standing Committee on Finance, in preparing the report referred to 
in paragraph 13 above, to collaborate, as appropriate, with the operating entities of the 
Financial Mechanism, the subsidiary and constituted bodies, multilateral and bilateral 
channels, and observer organizations;  
15. Further requests  that the actions of the Standing Committee on Finance called for in 
this decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources;  
16. Reques ts the Standing Committee on Finance to report to the Conference of the Parties 
at its twenty -fifth session ( December  2019) on progress in implementing its workplan;  
17. Also requests the Standing Committee on Finance to consider the guidance provided 
to it in  other relevant decisions of the Conference of the Parties . 
 FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
16  Annex  
Summary and recommendations by the Standing Committee 
on Finance on the 2018 Biennial Assessment and Overview of 
Climate Finance Flows  
[English only]  
I. Context and mandates  
1. The Standing Committee on Finance (SCF) assists the Conference of the Parties 
(COP)  in exercising its functions with respect to the Financial Mechanism of the Convention, 
inter alia, in terms of measurement, reporting and verification of support provided to 
developing country Parties, through activities such as the biennial assessment an d overview 
of climate finance flows (BA).1 
2. Subsequent to the 2014 BA, the COP requested the SCF to consider: the relevant work 
of other bodies and entities on measurement, reporting and verification of support and the 
tracking of climate finance;2 ways of strengthening methodologies for reporting climate 
finance;3 and ongoing technical work on operational definitions of climate finance, including 
private finance mobilized by public interventions, to assess how adaptation and mitigation 
needs can most effect ively be met by climate finance.4 It also requested the Ad Hoc Working 
Group on the Paris Agreement, when developing the modalities, procedures and guidelines 
for the transparency framework for action and support, to consider, inter alia, information in 
the BA and other reports of the SCF and other relevant bodies under the Convention.  
3. The COP welcomed the summary and recommendations by the SCF on the 2016 BA, 
which, inter alia, encourages Parties and relevant international institutions to enhance the 
availability of information that will be necessary for tracking global progress on the goals 
outlined in Article 2 of the Paris Agreement. The COP requested the SCF, in preparing future 
BAs, to assess available information on investment needs and plans related  to Parties’ 
nationally determined contributions (NDCs) and national adaptation plans.  
4. The 2018 BA provides an updated overview of climate finance flows in 2015 and 
2016 from provider to beneficiary countries, available information on domestic climate 
finance and cooperation among Parties not included in Annex I to the Convention (non -
Annex I Parties), and the other climate -related flows that constitute global total climate 
finance flows. It also includes information on trends since the 2014 BA. The 2018 BA then 
considers the implications of these flows and assesses their relevance to interna tional efforts 
to address climate change. It explores the key features of climate finance flows, including 
composition and purposes. It also explores emerging insights into their effectiveness, finance 
access, and ownership and alignment of climate finance  with beneficiary country needs and 
priorities related to climate change. It also provides information on recent developments in 
the measurement, reporting and verification of climate finance flows at the international and 
domestic level, and insights into  impact reporting practices.  
5. The 2018 BA includes, for the first time, information relevant to Article 2, paragraph 
1(c), of the Paris Agreement, including methods and metrics, and data sets on flows, stocks 
and considerations for integration. It also dis cusses climate finance flows in the broader 
context.  
6. The 2018 BA comprises this summary and recommendations, and a technical report. 
The summary and recommendations was prepared by the SCF. The technical report was 
prepared by experts under the guidance of  the SCF and draws on information and data from 
                                                           
 1 Decision 2/CP.17, paragraph 121(f).  
 2 Decision 1/CP.18, paragraph 71 .  
 3 Decision 5/CP.18, paragraph 11.   
 4 Decision 3/CP.19, paragraph 11 .  FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
 17 a range of sources. It was subject to extensive stakeholder input and expert review, but 
remains a product of the external experts.  
II. Challenges  and limitations  
7. The 2018 BA provides an updated overview of cur rent climate finance flows over the 
years 2015 and 2016, along with data on trends from 2011 to 2014 collated in previous BA 
reports. Due diligence has been undertaken to utilize the best information available from the 
most credible sources. In compiling e stimates, efforts have been made to avoid double 
counting through a focus on primary finance, which is finance for a new physical item or 
activity. Challenges were nevertheless encountered in collecting, aggregating and analysing 
information from diverse s ources. The lack of clarity with regard to the use of different 
definitions of climate finance limits the comparability of data.  
8. Data uncertainty.  There are uncertainties associated with each source of data which 
have different underlying causes. Uncertai nties are related to the data on domestic public 
investments, resulting from the lack of geographic coverage, differences in the way methods 
are applied, significant changes in the methods for estimating energy efficiency over the 
years, and the lack of av ailable data on sustainable transport and other key sectors. 
Uncertainties also arise from the lack of procedures and data to determine private climate 
finance; methods for estimating adaptation finance; differences in the assumptions of 
underlying formula s to attribute finance from multilateral development banks (MDBs) to 
members of the Organisation for Economic Co -operation and Development (OECD) 
Development Assistance Committee (DAC), minus the Republic of Korea; the classification 
of data as ‘green fina nce’; and incomplete data on non -concessional flows.  
9. Data gaps.  Gaps in the coverage of sectors and sources of climate finance remain 
significant, particularly with regard to private investment. Although estimates of incremental 
investments in energy effic iency have improved, there is still an inadequate understanding of 
the public and private sources of finance and the financial instruments behind those 
investments. For sustainable transport, efforts have been made to improve public and private 
investment in electric vehicles. However, information on sources and instruments for finance 
in public mass transit remains unreported in many countries. High -quality data on private 
investments in mitigation and finance in sectors such as agriculture, forests, water  and waste 
management are particularly lacking. In particular, adaptation finance estimates are difficult 
to compare with mitigation finance estimates due to the former being context -specific and 
incremental, and more work is needed on estimating climate -resilient investments.  
10. The limitations outlined in paragraphs 8 and 9 above need to be taken into 
consideration when deriving conclusions and policy implications from the 2018 BA. The 
SCF will contribute, through its activities, to the progressive improvem ent of the 
measurement, reporting and verification of climate finance information in future BAs to help 
address these challenges.  
III. Key findings  
A. Methodological issues relating to measurement, reporting and 
verification of public and private climate finance  
1. Developments in the period 2015 –2016  
11. Following the recommendations made by the SCF in the 2016 BA, the 2018 BA 
identifies the improvements listed in paragraphs 12 –16 below in the tracking and reporting 
of information on climate finance.  
(a) Annex II Parties  
12. Revision of the biennial report (BR) common tabular format (CTF) tables 7, 7(a) and 
7(b) has facilitated the provision of more qualitative information on the definitions and FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
18  underlying methodologies used by Parties included in Annex II to the Convention (An nex II 
Parties) in the documentation boxes in the BR3 CTF tables. The BR3 CTF tables submitted 
as at October 2018 suggest some increase in the provision of quantitative information, 
including information on public financial support in CTF table 7(b) and cl imate -related 
private finance in the BRs.  
(b) International organizations  
13. Making data available on private shares of climate co -finance associated with MDB 
finance and reporting on amounts mobilized through public interventions deployed by other 
development fi nance institutions (DFIs) included in the regular OECD -DAC data collection 
process.  
14. Facilitating the increased transparency of information through biennial surveys to 
collect information from OECD -DAC members on the measurement basis for reporting (i.e. 
committed, disbursed or “other”), and on the shares of the activity reported as mitigation, 
adaptation or cross -cutting to the UNFCCC.  
15. Institutionalizing the mitigation and adaptation finance tracking and reporting, and 
ongoing efforts aimed at better tracki ng and reporting on projects that have mitigation and 
adaptation co -benefits (i.e. cross -cutting) among MDBs.  
16. Measuring and reporting on impact is now common practice among multilateral 
climate funds, and there is now growing interest in this field by MDB s and the International 
Development Finance Club (IDFC), which are also undertaking work on methodologies for 
impact measuring in the light of the Paris Agreement. The ongoing efforts of MDBs to 
develop additional metrics that demonstrate how MDB financing  supports climate -resilient 
development pathways are an important step in this direction.  
(c) Insights into reporting by Annex II Parties and non -Annex I Parties  
17. Notwithstanding the improvements in methodologies for reporting climate finance via 
the BR3 CTF t ables 7, 7(a) and 7(b), some reporting issues persist that complicate the 
aggregation, comparison and analysis of the data. The current “UNFCCC biennial reporting 
guidelines for developed country Parties”5 were designed to accommodate reporting on a 
wide r ange of climate finance instruments and activities. This required a reporting 
architecture that was flexible enough to accommodate a diversity of reporting approaches. In 
some cases, limited clarity with regard to the diversity of reporting approaches limi ts 
comparability in climate finance reporting.  
18. The current “UNFCCC biennial update reporting guidelines for Parties not included 
in Annex I to the Convention”6 for reporting by non -Annex I Parties on financial, technical 
and capacity -building needs and support received do not require information on underlying 
assumptions, definitions and methodologies used in generating the information. 
Nevertheless, the provisi on of such information is useful.  
(d) Insights into broader reporting aspects  
19. Notwithstanding ongoing efforts to make information on domestic climate -related 
finance available through biennial update reports (BURs), published climate public 
expenditure and in stitutional reviews, and other tools, collecting and reporting domestic 
climate -related finance is often not undertaken systematically, thereby limiting the 
availability of information.  
20. There are significant data gaps on climate finance flows in the conte xt of cooperation 
among non -Annex I Parties.  
                                                           
 5 Decision 2/CP.17, annex I.  
 6 Decision 2/CP.17, annex III.  FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
 19 2. Information relevant to Article 2, paragraph 1(c), of the Paris Agreement: methods 
and metrics  
21. Ongoing voluntary efforts to develop approaches for tracking and reporting on 
consistency of public and private sec tor finance with the Paris Agreement are important for 
enhancing the collective understanding of the consistency of the broader finance and 
investment flows with Article 2, paragraph 1(c), of the Paris Agreement.  
22. Some financial actors, such as MDBs and bil ateral DFIs, have started to develop 
approaches for tracking the integration of climate change considerations into their operations. 
However, there was no publicly available information on the progress made on this matter at 
the time of preparation of the 2018 BA. Ongoing work for developing climate -resilience 
metrics is important for enhancing understanding of the consistency of multilateral and 
bilateral development finance with the Paris Agreement.  
B. Overview of current climate finance flows in the period  2015 –2016  
1. Global finance flows  
23. On a comparable basis, climate finance flows increased by 17 per cent in the period 
2015 –2016 compared with the period 2013 –2014. High -bound climate finance estimates 
increased from USD 584 billion in 2014 to USD 680 billio n in 2015 and to USD 681 billion 
in 2016 (see figure 1). The growth seen in 2015 was largely driven by high levels of new 
private investment in renewable energy, which is the largest segment of the global total. 
Despite decreasing technology costs (particu larly in solar photovoltaic and wind power 
generation), which means that every dollar invested finances more renewable energy than it 
previously did, a significant number of new projects were financed in 2015. In 2016, a 
decrease in renewable energy invest ment occurred, which was driven by both the continued 
decline in renewable technology costs and the lower generation capacity of new projects 
financed.7 However, the decrease in renewable energy investment in 2016 was offset by an 
8 per cent increase in investment in energy efficiency technologies across the building, 
industry and transport sectors.  
24. The quality and completeness of data on climate finance has improved since the 2016 
BA. Methodological improvements in estimating finance flows have changed the 
comparative basis against previous estimates. In particular, 2014 estimates for energy 
efficiency have been revised downward owing to a more accurate b ottom -up assessment 
model being employed by the International Energy Agency. This has resulted in a revised 
estimate of USD 584 billion from USD 741 billion for total global climate finance in 2014. 
In addition, data coverage in sustainable transport has i mproved, with estimates for public 
and private investment in electric vehicle sales in 2015 and 2016.  
(a) Flows from Annex II Parties to non -Annex I Parties as reported in biennial reports  
25. Climate -specific finance reported in BRs submitted by Annex II Parties  has increased 
in terms of both volume and rate of growth since the previous BA. Whereas the total finance 
reported increased by just 5 per cent from 2013 to 2014, it increased by 24 per cent from 
2014 to 2015 (to USD 33 billion), and subsequently by 14 pe r cent from 2015 to 2016 (to 
USD 38 billion). Out of these total amounts, USD 30 billion in 2015 and USD 34 billion in 
2016 were reported as climate -specific finance channelled through bilateral, regional and 
other channels; the remainder flowed through mu ltilateral channels. From 2014 to 2016, both 
mitigation and adaptation finance grew in more or less equal proportions, namely by 41 and 
45 per cent, respectively.  
(b) Multilateral climate funds  
26. Total amounts channelled through UNFCCC funds and multilateral c limate funds in 
2015 and 2016 were USD 1.4 billion and USD 2.4 billion, respectively. The significant 
increase from 2015 to 2016 was a result of the Green Climate Fund (GCF) ramping up 
                                                           
 7 Approximately 52 per cent of  the decrease in 2016 was due to reduced technology costs in solar 
photovoltaic and wind energy.  FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
20  operations. On the whole, this represents a decrease of approximately 1 3 per cent compared 
with the 2013 –2014 biennium and can be accounted for by a reduction in the commitments 
made by the Climate Investment Funds, in line with changes in the climate finance landscape 
as the GCF only started to scale up operations in 2016.  
(c) Climate finance from multilateral development banks  
27. MDBs provided USD 23.4 billion and USD 25.5 billion in climate finance from their 
own resources to eligible recipient countries in 2015 and 2016, respectively. On average, this 
represents a 3.4 per cent i ncrease from the 2013 –2014 period.  
28. The attribution of MDB finance flows to members of OECD -DAC, minus the 
Republic of Korea, is calculated at up to USD 17.4 billion in 2015 and USD 19.7 billion in 
2016 to recipients eligible for OECD -DAC official developm ent assistance.  
(d) Private climate finance  
29. The most significant source of uncertainty relates to the geographic attribution of 
private finance data. Although efforts have been made by MDBs and OECD since the 2016 
BA to estimate private climate finance mobilized through multilateral and bilateral 
institutions, data on private finance sources and destinations remain lacking.  
30. MDBs reported private finance mobilization in 2015 was USD 10.9 billion and 
increased by 43 per cent the following year to USD 15.7 billion. OECD estimated USD 21.7 
billion in cl imate -related private finance mobilized during the period 2012 –2015 by bilateral 
and multilateral institutions, which included USD 14 billion from multilateral providers and 
USD 7.7 billion from bilateral finance institutions. It is estimated that, in 2015 , USD 2.3 
billion was mobilized through bilateral institutions. The Climate Policy Initiative estimated 
renewable energy flows for new projects ranged from USD 2.4 billion in 2015 to USD 1.5 
billion in 2016; this was, however, a significant underestimation  given the underlying 
reporting approaches.  
(e) Recipients  
31. A total of 34 Parties included in Annex I to the Convention provided information on 
recipients in the BR3s, while 16 out of 40 BURs submitted as first or second BURs as at 
October 2018 include, to var ying degrees, quantitative information on climate finance 
received in the 2015 –2016 period. Therefore, at the time of the preparation of the 2018 BA, 
it is not possible to present a clear picture of climate finance received on the basis of the 
information included in national reports submitted to the secretariat.  
32. Other sources of information provide insights on recipients. For example, of the 
bilateral finance reported to OECD -DAC, national and local governments received 51 and 
61 per cent of bilateral cli mate -related assistance in 2015 and 2016, up from 43 and 42 per 
cent in 2013 and 2014, respectively. The remainder was received by international 
organizations, non -governmental organizations and public and private sector organizations 
from the support -providing countries. No information is available on the channels of delivery 
for 91 –97 per cent of the other official flows of a non -concessional nature in the period 2015 –
2016. Of the total climate finance committed by MDBs from their own resources, 72 per ce nt 
was channelled to public sector recipients in 2015, and 74 per cent in 2016. Adaptation 
finance, in particular, went predominantly to public sector institutions: 90 per cent in 2015 
and 97 per cent in 2016.  
2. Domestic climate finance  
33. Domestic climate exp enditures by national and subnational governments are a 
potentially growing source of global climate finance, particularly as, in some cases, NDC 
submissions are translated into specific investment plans and domestic efforts to monitor and 
track the domest ic climate expenditures are stepped up. However, comprehensive data on 
domestic climate expenditure are not readily available, as these data are not collected 
regularly or with a consistent methodology over time within or across countries. Of the 30 
countr ies that reported data on climate expenditures included in the 2016 BA, 19 countries 
provided such data in 2015 or 2016, with the 2015 data for 5 countries being included in the FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
 21 2016 BA. Four countries reported expenditure of USD 0.335 billion in their BUR s, while 
seven countries published climate public expenditure and institutional reviews  amounting to 
USD 16.5 billion.8 In two other countries, updated data are available amounting to USD 49 
billion. In total, this brings domestic public climate finance es timates for the period 2015 –
2016 to USD 67 billion.  
3. Flows among countries that are not members of the Development Assistance 
Committee of the Organisation for Economic Co -operation and Development, 
recipients eligible for official development assistance a nd Parties not included in 
Annex I  
34. Information on climate finance flows among non -Annex I Parties is not systematically 
tracked, relying on voluntary reporting by countries through the OECD -DAC Creditor 
Reporting System and DFIs through IDFC that are based  in countries that are not members 
of the Organisation for Economic Co -operation and Development (non -OECD). Total 
estimates of such flows amounted to USD 12.2 –13.9 billion in 2015 and USD 11.3 –13.7 
billion in 2016. This represents an increase of approxima tely 33 per cent on average from the 
2013 –2014 period, driven primarily by non -OECD member institutions of IDFC increasing 
finance significantly to other non -OECD members. New multilateral institutions include the 
Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB ) and the New Development Bank. Together, 
they provided USD 911 million to renewable energy projects in 2016. The AIIB portion of 
this amount included outflows that may be attributable to OECD -DAC members that are 
shareholders in AIIB.  
                                                           
 8 This includes Hebei Province in China, reporting an expenditure of USD 6.1 billion in 2015.  FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
22  Figure 1  
Climate fi nance flows in the period 2015 –2016  
(Billions of United States dollars, annualized)  
 
 
Abbreviations : BEV = battery electric vehicle, BUR = biennial update report, CPEIR = climate public 
expenditure and institutional reviews, CPI = Climate Policy Initiative, IEA = International Energy Agency, 
I4CE = Institute for Climate Economics, MDB = multilateral devel opment bank, OECD = Organisation for 
Economic Co -operation and Development, UNDP = United Nations Development Programme.  
a Value discounts transport energy efficiency estimates by 8.5 per cent to account for overlap with electric 
vehicle estimates.  
b From  members of the OECD  Development Assistance Committee (DAC) , minus the Republic of Korea, to 
OECD -DAC recipients eligible for official development assistance . Refer to chapter 2.5.2 of the 2018 Biennial 
Assessment and Overview of Climate Finance Flows  technical report for further explanation .  
c Estimates include private co -financing with MDB finance.  
4. Information relevant to Article 2, paragraph 1(c), of the Paris Agreement: data sets 
on flows, stocks and integration  
35. The 2018 BA includes information on avai lable data sets that integrate climate change 
considerations into insurance, lending and investment decision -making processes and that 
FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
 23 include information that may be relevant to tracking consistency with Article 2, paragraph 
1(c), of the Paris Agreement.  
36. Across the financial sector, both the reporting of data on financial flows and stocks 
consistent with low greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and climate -resilient pathways, and the 
integration of climate considerations into decision -making are at a nascent st age. The data 
sets available on bond markets are the most advanced, with regular and reliable data 
published based on green bond labelling and analysis of bonds that may be aligned with 
climate themes. Less information is available on bonds that may be inc onsistent with low 
GHG emissions and climate -resilient pathways. Other market segments lack completeness 
of coverage and reporting quality across peer institutions. With regard to integrating climate 
change considerations into investment decision -making, s ome market segments such as listed 
corporations and institutional investors are participating in emerging reporting initiatives, 
including through target -setting processes, that will likely improve the availability of data 
over time. Other market segments such as insurance companies participate in comprehensive 
and regular survey reporting on climate integration into governance and risk -management 
processes. Other market segments, particularly in banking, insurance and financial services, 
lack breadth of co verage in reporting or are at an early stage of considering how to report 
data.  
C. Assessment of climate finance flows  
37. An assessment of the data underlying the overview of climate finance flows presented 
offers insights into crucial questions of interest in the context of the objective of the 
Convention and the goals outlined in the Paris Agreement. Development banks, DFIs and 
multilateral climate funds play a vital role in helping countries to deliver on their NDCs. The 
key features of a subset of these diff erent channels of public climate finance for beneficiary 
countries are summarized in the figure below, including the areas of support (adaptation, 
mitigation or cross -cutting) and the instruments used to deliver climate finance.  
Figure 2  
Characteristics of  international public climate finance flows in the period 2015 –2016  
 
 
Note : All values are based on approvals and commitments.  
Abbreviations : MDB = multilateral development bank.  
a In decision 1/CP.16, paragraph 70, the Conference of the Parties encouraged developing country Parties to contribute to 
mitigation actions in the forest sector by undertaking the following activities: reducing emissions from deforestation; 
reducing emissions  from forest degradation; conservation of forest carbon stocks; sustainable management of forests; and 
enhancement of forest carbon stocks. 
b Including Adaptation for Smallholder Agriculture Programme, Adaptation Fund, Bio Carbon Fund, Clean Technology 
Fund, Forest Carbon Partnership Facility, Forest Investment Program, Global Climate Change Alliance, Global 
Environment Facility Trust Fund, Green Climate Fund, Least Developed Countries Fund, Partnership for Market 
Readiness, Pilot Programme for Climate Resi lience, Scaling Up Renewable Energy Program, Special Climate Change Fund 
and United Nations Collaborative Programme on Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation in 
Developing Countries.  
c Bilateral climate finance data are sourced from biennial reports from Parties included in Annex II to the Convention (that 
further include regional and other channels) for the annual average. Information related to the United States of America is 
drawn from preliminary data provided by the United States . The thematic split and the financial instrument data are taken 
from data from the Organisation for Economic Co -operation and Development (OECD) Development Assistance Committee 
(DAC), referring only to concessional flows of climate -related development as sistance reported by OECD -DAC members. 
Section C of the summary and recommendations  and chapter III of the technical report uses ‘bilateral finance’ to refer only 
to concessional flows of climate -related development assistance reported by OECD -DAC members . 
FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
24  d The annual average and thematic split of MDBs includes their own resources only, while the financial instrument data 
include data from MDBs and from external resources, due to the lack of data disaggregation.  
 
38. Overall, trends in climate finance point to  increasing flows towards beneficiary 
countries. Bilateral climate finance flows, and those channelled through MDBs, have 
increased since the 2016 BA, whereas flows from the multilateral climate funds have 
fluctuated, having decreased in 2015 before reboun ding in 2016, although the average 
remains lower than in the 2013 –2014 period, which reflects changes in the climate finance 
landscape.  
39. When considering these flows in aggregate, support for mitigation remains greater 
than support for adaptation across al l sources (noting, however, measurement differences). 
Bilateral finance flows from OECD -DAC providers had the greatest proportion intended for 
adaptation (29 per cent) in the period 2015 –2016, followed by multilateral climate funds (25 
per cent) and MDBs ( 21 per cent). However, the 2018 BA finds an increase in public climate 
finance flows that contributes towards both adaptation and mitigation from both bilateral 
contributors and multilateral climate funds. This makes it more difficult to track the progress  
made in ramping up adaptation finance. When, however, considering flows based on other 
groupings, there are variations in the composition of the types of support.  
40. Grants continue to be a key instrument for the provision of adaptation finance. In the 
perio d 2015 –2016 grants accounted for 62 and 94 per cent of the face value of bilateral 
adaptation finance reported to OECD and of adaptation finance from the multilateral climate 
funds, respectively. During the same period, 9 per cent of adaptation finance flo wing through 
MDBs was grant -based. Mitigation finance remains less concessional in nature, with 25 per 
cent of bilateral flows, 31 per cent of multilateral climate fund approvals and 4 per cent of 
MDB investments  taking the form of grants. These figures, h owever, may not fully capture 
the added value brought by combining different types of financial instruments, or technical 
assistance with capital flows, which can often lead to greater innovation or more sustainable 
implementation.  
41. With regard to geographi c distribution, Asia remains the principal recipient region of 
public climate finance flows. In the period 2015 –2016, the region received 31 per cent of 
funding from multilateral climate funds, 42 per cent of bilateral finance reported to OECD 
and 41 per c ent of MDB flows (including to the Pacific region). The Latin America and 
Caribbean region and sub -Saharan Africa each secured 22 per cent of approvals from the 
multilateral climate funds in the same period. Latin America and the Caribbean received 17 
per cent of MDB financing and 10 per cent of bilateral finance reported to OECD, whereas 
sub-Saharan Africa received just 9 per cent of MDB financing but 30 per cent of bilateral 
finance reported to OECD.  
42. With regard to flows to the least developed countries ( LDCs) and small island 
developing States (SIDS) in the period 2015 –2016, funding directed at the LDCs represented 
24 per cent of bilateral flows, whereas that directed at SIDS accounted for 2 per cent of such 
flows. Of the bilateral finance provided to the  LDCs and SIDS, around half was earmarked 
for adaptation. Similarly, 21 per cent of finance approved by multilateral climate funds went 
to the LDCs and 13 per cent to SIDS, and more than half of this finance was focused on 
adaptation. MDBs channelled 15 pe r cent of their climate finance to the LDCs and SIDS. The 
percentage of adaptation spending to these countries (41 per cent) is twice their climate 
finance spending overall.  
43. The management of climate finance, as well as the development and implementation 
of the projects that it supports, necessarily entails costs. The degree of such costs, which are 
often recovered through mechanisms such as administrative budgets and implementing 
agency fees, varies across institutions. Among the major multilateral climate  change funds, 
fees account for between 1 and 9 per cent of total fund value, ranging from USD 65,000 to 
USD 1.2 million per project. Although these costs tend to decrease over time as management 
and disbursement mechanisms become more streamlined, there i s evidence to suggest that 
the alignment of administrative functions between funds (e.g. the Global Environment 
Facility administration of the Least Developed Countries Fund and Special Climate Change 
Fund) offers the best opportunity to keep administrativ e costs down. This is essential in order 
to retain the trust that providers and recipients place in the funds.  FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
 25 44. The push to diversify modalities of access to climate finance continues. Institutions in 
beneficiary countries are increasingly able to meet fiduciary  and environmental and social 
safeguard requirements for accessing funds. There has been a notable increase in the number 
of regional and national implementing entities to the multilateral climate funds, despite large 
amounts remaining programmed thro ugh multilateral entities.  
45. Ownership remains a critical factor in the delivery of effective climate finance. A 
broad concept of ownership encompasses the consistency of climate finance with national 
priorities, the degree to which national systems are used  for both spending and tracking, and 
the engagement of a wide range of stakeholders. There have been a number of efforts to build 
capacity to access and make strategic choices about how to use finance and oversee 
implementation. With regard to the role of governments, while there has been greater 
commitment by ministries of finance and planning to integrate climate finance into national 
budgetary planning, this is often not done fully. National -level institutions in beneficiary 
countries are playing a great er role in managing climate finance, particularly through 
domestic tracking systems. NDCs for which further financial resources need to be found are 
emerging as a platform that governments can use to stimulate engagement and strengthen 
national ownership o f climate finance.  
46. Mechanisms for monitoring the impact of climate finance have improved, albeit not 
uniformly. Thus, although the reporting of results (in terms of outputs) has increased, it is 
difficult to assess properly the quality of the impacts achie ved (i.e. outcomes). These impacts 
are, moreover, presented in a multitude of formats. The reduction of GHG emissions remains 
the primary impact metric for climate change mitigation. Core mitigation -related multilateral 
funds are expected to reduce GHG emi ssions by over 11 billion tonne of carbon dioxide 
equivalent (t CO 2 eq), with reported reductions  already approaching 37 million t CO 2 eq. 
GHG reduction results are complemented by other quantitative data, such as the number of 
beneficiaries and the renewable energy capacity installed. The metrics, benchmarks and 
frameworks for monitoring the impact of mitigation projects continue to evo lve, thereby 
helping to inform investment decisions.  
47. Discussion on impact measurement of adaptation projects continues to be focused on 
the number and type of people that benefit from them, although the nature and extent of their 
beneficial effects are sti ll difficult to quantify, both directly and indirectly. Adaptation 
finance channelled through core multilateral climate funds has so far reached over 20 million 
direct beneficiaries. The target for the combined number of direct and indirect beneficiaries 
is 290 million. Further work is necessary to develop adaptation and resilience metrics that 
can capture the whole spectrum of sectors receiving support and the many different 
approaches used, while allowing for aggregation of data and comparability between projects 
and funds.  
48. The extent of co -financing remains important for the mobilization of private finance, 
but is challenged in terms of the availability of data, definitions and methods. Research 
suggests that multilateral climate funds can perform on a pa r with DFIs with regard to private 
co-financing ratios. The degree to which such finance can be mobilized, however, is often 
heavily influenced by the investment conditions in a country, which are in turn created by 
the policy and regulatory frameworks in place.  
Information relevant to Article 2, paragraph 1(c), of the Paris Agreement: climate 
finance in context  
49. Climate finance continues to account for just a small proportion of overall finance 
flows (see figure 3); the level of climate finance is considerably below what one would expect 
given the investment opportunities and needs that have been identified. Howev er, although 
climate finance flows must obviously be scaled up, it is also important to ensure the 
consistency of finance flows as a whole (and of capital stock) pursuant to Article 2, paragraph 
1(c), of the Paris Agreement. This does not mean that all fin ance flows have to achieve 
explicitly beneficial climate outcomes, but that they must reduce  the likelihood of negative 
climate outcomes. Although commitments are being made to ensure that finance flows from 
DFIs are climate consistent, more can be done to  understand public finance flows and ensure 
that they are all are consistent with countries’ climate change and sustainable development 
objectives.  FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
26  50. Awareness of climate risk in the financial sector has increased over the past few years. 
Positive developmen ts are being seen in the sector, particularly with regard to the investment 
and lending policies of both public and private  sector actors, and with regard to regulatory 
and fiscal policies and the information resources that guide decision -making.  
 
Figure 3 
Climate finance in context  
 
Note : All flows are global and annual for 2016 unless stated otherwise. Energy investment needs are modelled under a 2 °C 
scenario. The representation of stocks that overlap is not necessarily reflective of real -world overla ps. The flows represented 
are not representative of all flows contributing to the stocks presented. Data points are provided to place climate finance i n 
context and do not represent an aggregate or systematic view. Climate finance flows are those represent ed in section B of the 
Summary and Recommendations and as reported in chapter 2 of the 2018 Biennial Assessment and Overview of Climate 
Finance Flows  technical report. Investment in renewable energy overlaps with this estimate of climate finance flows.  
Source: See figure 3.9 in the 2018 Biennial Assessment and Overview of Climate Finance Flows  technical report.  
FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
 27 IV. Recommendations  
51. The SCF invites the COP to consider the following recommendations:  
Chapter  I (methodologies)  
(a) Request developed country Parties and encourage  developing country Parties, 
building on progress made so far and ongoing work, to continue enhancing the transparency, 
consistency and comparability of data on climate finance provided and mobilized through 
public interventions, and taking into c onsideration developments in relevant organizations 
and institutions;  
(b) Encourage  Parties providing climate finance to enhance their reporting of 
climate finance provided to developing country Parties;  
(c) Invite  Parties, through their board memberships in inte rnational financial 
institutions, to encourage continued efforts in the harmonization of methodologies for 
tracking and reporting climate finance among international organizations;  
(d) Encourage  developing country Parties, building on progress made so far and 
ongoing work, to consider, as appropriate, enhancing their reporting on the underlying 
assumptions, definitions and methodologies used in generating information on financial, 
technical and capacity -building needs and support received;  
Chapter  II (overview ) 
(e) Encourage  Parties, building on progress made so far, to enhance their tracking 
and reporting on climate finance flows from all sources;  
(f) Encourage  developing country Parties that provide support to report 
information on climate finance provided to other developing country Parties;  
(g) Encourage  developed countries and climate finance providers, as well as 
multilateral and financial institutions, pri vate finance data providers and other relevant 
institutions, to enhance the availability of granular, country -level data on mitigation and 
adaptation finance, inter alia, transport, agriculture, forests, water and waste;  
(h) Invite  private sector associat ions and financial institutions to build on the 
progress made on ways to improve data on climate finance and to engage with the SCF, 
including through their participation in the forums of the SCF with a view to enhancing the 
quality of the BA;  
(i) Request the SCF to continue its work in the mapping of available data sets that 
integrate climate change considerations into insurance, lending and investment decision -
making processes, and to include information relevant to Article 2, paragraph 1(c), of the 
Paris  Agreement in future BAs;  
Chapter III (assessment)  
(j) Invite  Parties to strive for complementarity between climate finance and 
sustainable development by, inter alia, aligning climate finance with national climate change 
frameworks and priorities, as well  as broader economic development policies and national 
budgetary planning;  
(k) Encourage  developing countries to take advantage of available resources 
through the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism to strengthen institutional capacity 
for progra mming their priority climate action, as well as tracking climate finance, 
effectiveness and impacts;  
(l) Encourage  developed countries and climate finance providers to continue to 
enhance country ownership and consider policies to balance funding for adapt ation and 
mitigation, taking into account beneficiary country strategies, and, in line with the mandates, 
building on experiences, policies and practices of the operating entities of the Financial 
Mechanism, particularly the GCF;  
(m) Encourage  climate fina nce providers to improve tracking and reporting on 
gender -related aspects of climate finance, impact measuring and mainstreaming;  FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
28  (n) Invite , as in the 2016 BA, multilateral climate funds, MDBs, other financial 
institutions and relevant international orga nizations to continue to advance work on tracking 
and reporting on impacts of mitigation and adaptation finance;  
(o) Encourage  all relevant United Nations agencies and international, regional and 
national financial institutions to provide information to Pa rties through the secretariat on how 
their development assistance and climate finance programmes incorporate climate -proofing 
and climate -resilience measures, in line with new available scientific information;  
(p) Request  the SCF, in preparing future BAs, to continue assessing available 
information on the alignment of climate finance with investment needs and plans related to 
Parties’ NDCs and national adaptation plans;  
(q) Request  the SCF, in preparing the 2020 BA, to take into consideration available 
information relevant to Article 2 of the Paris Agreement.  
10th plenary meeting  
15 December 2018  FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
 29   Decision 5 /CP.24  
  Report of the Green Climate Fund to the Conference of the 
Parties and guidance to the Green Climate Fund  
The Conference of the Parties , 
 Noting the draft guidance to the Green Climate Fund prepared by the Standing 
Committee on Finance,1 
Recalling decision 10/CP.22, paragraph 5,  
1. Welcomes  the report of the Green Climate Fund to the Conference of the Parties at its 
twenty -fourth session and its addendum,2 including the list of actions taken by the Board of 
the Green Climate Fund (hereinafter referred to as the Board) in response to guidance 
received from the Conference of the Parties ;  
2. Also welcomes  the progress of the Green Climate Fund in 2018, including : 
(a) That funding approved by the Board has reached USD 5.5 billion, including 
USD 4.6 billion in loans, grants, equities and guarantees in the past three years for the 
implementation of 93 funding proposals for adaptation and mitigation in 96 developing 
coun tries;  
(b) The work to strengthen the Green Climate Fund’s institutional capacity, 
standards and safeguards, transparency, inclusiveness, pipeline and role within the climate 
finance landscape;  
(c) The decision of the Board3 to initiate a review of the performance  of the Green 
Climate Fund to assess the progress of the Fund in delivering on its mandate as set out in its 
Governing Instrument;  
(d) The decision of the Board4 concerning the selection process for the 
appointment of the Executive Director of the Green Climat e Fund secretariat;  
(e) The decision of the Board to select and appoint the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development as the trustee of the Green Climate Fund;  
(f) Efforts made to improve access to the Green Climate Fund through the 
structured dialogue s and the Readiness and Preparatory Support Programme;  
(g) The increase in the number of entities accredited by the Board, including direct 
access entities;  
(h) The implementation of the simplified approvals process, including the 
approval of four projects worth U SD 30.1 million in Green Climate Fund funding to date;  
(i) The collaboration in 2018 between the Green Climate Fund and the 
Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Centre and Network;  
(j) The decision of the Board5 on financial planning in 2019 a nd the allocation of 
up to USD 600 million to fund projects submitted in response to requests for proposals and 
pilot programmes, including the requests for “proposals on REDD -plus results -based 
payments”, mobilizing funds at scale, micro, small and medium -sized enterprises, enhanced 
direct access and the simplified approvals process;  
(k) The first annual report on complementarity and coherence with the Green 
Climate Fund and other climate finance channels;  
                                                           
 1  FCCC/CP/2018/8, annex IV.  
 2 FCCC/CP/2018/5 and Add.1.  
 3 Green Climate Fund Board decision B.21/17.  
 4 Green Climate Fund Board decision B.21/06.  
 5  Green Climate Fund Board decision B.21/14.  FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
30  3. Further welcomes  the report on the implementation of the 2018 workplan and the 
approval of the 2019 workplan of the Board, and urges  the Board to address remaining policy 
gaps, including on, as specified in the Fund’s Governing Instrument and its rules of 
procedure:  
(a) Polic ies relating to:  
(i) The approval of funding proposals, including project and programme 
eligibility and selection criteria, incremental costs, co -financing, concessionality, 
programmatic approach, restructuring and cancellation;  
(ii) Prohibited practices as well as  the implementation of the anti -money -
laundering and countering the financing of terrorism policy;  
(b) Review of the accreditation framework;  
(c) Pursuing privileges and immunities for the Green Climate Fund;  
(d) Consideration of alternative policy approaches, such as  joint mitigation and 
adaptation approaches for the integral and sustainable management of forests;6 
(e) The requests for proposals to support climate technology incubators and 
accelerators, in accordance with Board decision B.18/03;  
4. Urges  the Board to continu e its consideration of procedures for adopting decisions in 
the event that all efforts at reaching consensus have been exhausted, as specified in the Fund’s 
Governing Instrument;  
5. Welcomes  the launching of the first formal replenishment process and the Boar d’s 
decisions on the inputs and processes related to the Fund’s replenishment,7 which take into 
account the needs of developing countries;  
6. Stresses  the urgency to reach pledges for the first formal replenishment process 
aiming to conclude the process in October 2019;  
7. Takes note  of the independent evaluations of the readiness and preparatory support 
programme and encourages the Board to address the re commendations contained therein, in 
accordance with paragraph 59 of the Governing Instrument, with a view to improving access 
to the Green Climate Fund and increasing the Fund’s efforts to support country ownership 
and country programming;  
8. Reaffirms  the ne cessity to focus on implementation and to speed up disbursement of 
funds to already approved projects as a key element of the Green Climate Fund’s operations 
in line with agreed disbursement schedules;  
9. Invites  Parties to submit to the secretariat via the s ubmission portal,8 no later than 10 
weeks prior to the twenty -fifth session of the Conference of the Parties ( December  2019), 
their views and recommendations on elements to be taken into account in developing 
guidance for the Board;  
10. Requests  the Standing C ommittee on Finance to take into consideration the 
submissions referred to in paragraph 9 above when preparing its draft guidance for the Board 
for consideration by the Conference of the Parties;  
11. Also requests  the Board to include in its annual report to t he Conference of the Parties 
information on the steps that it has taken to implement the guidance provided in this decision;  
                                                           
 6  Decision 16/CP.21, paragraph 6, and decision 7/CP.21, paragraph 25.  
 7  Green Climate Fund Board decision B.21/18.  
 8  https://unfccc.int/submissions_and_statements .  FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
 31 12. Decides , in accordance with decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 61, to transmit to the Green 
Climate Fund the guidance from the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Paris Agreement contained in the decisions referred to in decision 3/CMA.1, 
paragraph 4.  
10th plenary meeting  
15 December 2018  
 FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
32    Decision 6 /CP.24  
  Report of the Global Environment Facility to the Conference 
of the Parties and guidance to the Global Environment 
Facility  
The Conference of the Parties ,  
 Noting  the draft guidance to the Global Environment Facility prepared by the Standing 
Committee on Finance,1  
1. Welcomes  the report of the Global Environment Facility to the Conference of the 
Parties and its addendum,2 including the responses of the Global Environment Facility to 
guidance from the Conference of the Parties ;  
2. Also welcomes the seventh replenishment of the Global Environment Facility (July 
2018 to June 2022);  
3. Recognizes with concern the decrease in alloca tion to the climate change focal area, 
including the System for Transparent Allocation of Resources, compared with the sixth 
replenishment;  
4. Urges  all Parties that have not made pledges for the seventh replenishment of the 
Global Environment Facility to do so as soon as possible;  
5. Acknowledges  the increased integration of climate change priorities into other focal 
areas and the impact programmes in the seventh replenishment of the Global Environment 
Facility, as well as the increased focus on innovation and e nhanced synergies with other focal 
areas;  
6. Highlights  the importance of enhancing country ownership in the impact programmes 
of the seventh replenishment of the Global Environment Facility;  
7. Requests  the Global Environment Facility, as appropriate, to ensure  that its policies 
and procedures related to the consideration and review of funding proposals are duly 
followed in an efficient manner;  
8. Looks forward to the projected delivery of greenhouse gas emission reductions in the 
seventh replenishment period, whic h is twice the amount planned for the sixth replenishment;  
9. Acknowledges  the updated policy on co -financing of the Global Environment 
Facility,3 which sets out an ambition for the overall portfolio of the Global Environment 
Facility to reach an increased ra tio of co -financing to its project financing;  
10. Recognizes  that the Global Environment Facility does not impose minimum 
thresholds and/or specific types or sources of co -financing or investment mobilized in its 
review of individual projects and programmes;4 
11. Welcomes  the inclusion of support for the Capacity -building Initiative for 
Transparency in the seventh replenishment of the Global Environment Facility, which 
enhances predictability of funding for the Initiative;  
12. Requests  the Global Environment Facility t o continue to manage the Capacity -
building Initiative for Transparency to fund a diversity of countries and regions, taking into 
account each country’s capacity, in line with priorities of support as contained in the 
programming directions of the Capacity -building Initiative for Transparency;5 
13. Invites  the Global Environment Facility to enhance the information in its reports to 
the Conference of the Parties on the outcomes of the collaboration between the Poznan 
                                                           
 1 FCCC/CP/2018/8, annex V.  
 2 FCCC/CP/2018/6 and Add.1.  
 3  Global Environment Facility Council decision GEF/C.54/10/Rev.01.  
 4 Global Environment Facility document GEF/C.54/10/Rev.01, annex I, paragraph 5.  
 5  Global Environment Facility document GEF/C.50/06, paragraph 26.  FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
 33 strategic programme on technology transfer’s c limate technology and finance centres and the 
Climate Technology Centre and Network;  
14. Requests  the Global Environment Facility to continue t o monitor the geographic and 
thematic coverage, as well as the effectiveness, efficiency and engagement, of the Globa l 
Environment Facility Partnership, and to consider the participation of additional national and 
regional entities, as appropriate;  
15. Welcomes  the establishment of the private sector advisory group;  
16. Encourages  a balanced composition of the private sector adv isory group in terms of 
gender and geographical coverage;  
17. Welcomes  the Global Environment Facility Council’s decision6 to begin the process 
of developing improved fiduciary standards, including anti -money -laundering and counter -
terrorism finance policy and  requests  the Global Environment Facility to include updates on 
this work in its report to the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -fifth session ( December  
2019);  
18. Requests  the Global Environment Facility to review and, if necessary, update or adopt 
policies for preventing sexual harassment and the abuse of authority with the aim of 
protecting the staff of the Global Environment Facility secretariat as well as its partner 
organizations against unwanted sexual advances, preventing inappropriate behaviour a nd 
abuse of power and providing guidelines for reporting incidents;  
19. Invites  Parties to submit to the secretariat via the submission portal,7 no later than 10 
weeks prior to the twenty -fifth session of the Conference of the Parties, their views and 
recommen dations on elements to be taken into account in developing guidance for the Global 
Environment Facility;  
20. Requests  the Standing Committee on Finance to take into consideration the 
submissions referred to in paragraph 19 above when preparing its draft guidance for the 
Global Environment Facility for consideration by the Conference of the Parties;  
21. Also requests  the Glob al Environment Facility to include in its annual report to the 
Conference of the Parties information on the steps that it has taken to implement the guidance 
provided in this decision;  
22. Decides , in accordance with decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 61, to transmit  to the Global 
Environment Facility the guidance from the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement contained in the decisions referred to in decision 
3/CMA.1 paragraph 4.  
10th plenary meeting  
15 December 2018
                                                           
 6 Global Environment Facility Council decision GEF/C.54/09/Rev.01.  
 7 https://unfccc.int/submissions_and_statements .  FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
34    Decision 7 /CP.24  
  Modalities, work programme and functions under the 
Convention of the forum on the impact  of the implementation 
of response measures  
The Conference of the Parties , 
 Recalling Article 4 of the Convention,   
 Also recalling Article 2 and Article 3, paragraph 14, of the Kyoto Protocol,  
 Reaffirming  Article 4, paragraph 15, of the Paris Agreemen t, 
 Recalling  decisions 1/CP.16, 2/CP.17, 8/CP.17, 1/CP.21 and 11/CP.21,  
 Recognizing  that Parties may be affected not only by climate change but also by the 
impacts of the measures taken in response to it,  
 Acknowledging  that there are both positive and n egative impacts associated with 
measures taken in response to climate change,  
 Also acknowledging  that response measures should be understood in the broader 
context of the transition towards low greenhouse gas emissions and climate -resilient 
development,  
 Reaffirming  that Parties should cooperate to promote a supportive and inclusive 
international economic system that will lead to sustainable economic growth and 
development in all Parties,  
1. Recalls decision 5/CMP.7, paragraph 4, and decision 1/CP.21, paragr aph 33, by which 
it was decided, inter alia, that the forum on the impact of the implementation of response 
measures shall also serve the Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement;  
2. Adopts  the modalities, work programme and functions of the forum on the impact  of 
the implementation of response measures as contained in the annex to decision 7/CMA.1 for 
the work of the forum under the Convention;   
3. Acknowledges that there is one single forum that covers the work of the Conference 
of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement on all matters relating to the impact of the implementation of response mea sures;  
4. Affirms  that the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures shall 
continue to report to the Conference of the Parties in respect of matters falling under 
Article  4, paragraphs 8 and 10, of the Convention where the forum requires the guidance of 
the Conference of the Parties.   
10th plenary meeting  
15 December 2018FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
 35   Decision 8 /CP.24  
  National adaptation  plans  
The Conference of the Parties ,  
Recalling  decisions 1/CP.16, 3/CP.17, 5/CP.17, 12/CP.18, 18/CP.19, 3/CP.20, 
1/CP.21, 4/CP.21 and 6/CP.22,  
Acknowledging that progress in the process to formulate and implement national 
adaptation plans will contribut e towards enhancing adaptive capacity, strengthening 
resilience and reducing vulnerability to climate change,  
1. Acknowledges that developing country Parties have made progress in the process to 
formulate and implement national adaptation plans, and that coun tries are at different stages 
of the process;1 
2. Also acknowledges  that progress has been made in addressing the objective of the 
process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans for integrating adaptation into 
development planning;  
3. Further acknowledges that there is not enough information to assess the extent to 
which the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans is reducing 
vulnerability to climate change, strengthening resilience and building adaptive capacity;  
4. Notes  that experience from prior work on adaptation, in particular on the national 
adaptation programmes of action, has provided many lessons for the process to formulate and 
implement national adaptation plans;  
5. Recognizes that the process -based approach t o formulating and implementing national 
adaptation plans is proving to be a good practice as it focuses on long -term, iterative capacity 
development, enabling environments, institutions and policies, and the implementation of 
concrete actions through proje cts and programmes;  
6. Also recognizes  the value of learning from various climate shocks in furthering the 
understanding of vulnerability and risk and in helping to identify adaptation actions that 
would do the most to save lives and livelihoods;  
7. Welcomes the submissions from Colombia, Saint Lucia and Togo of their national 
adaptation plans in NAP Central,2 bringing the total number of submitted national adaptation 
plans to 11, and reiterates  its invitation3 to Parties to forward outputs and outcomes related 
to the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans to NAP Central or other 
means as appropriate;  
8. Recognizes  that it will be useful for Parties to undertake monitoring and evaluation of 
the efforts of their adaptation actions at the national , subnational and local level to increase 
understanding of progress on adaptation;  
9. Notes that funding has been made available for developing country Parties under the 
Green Climate Fund, the Least Developed Countries Fund and the Special Climate Change 
Fund for the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans, and that other 
channels of bilateral, multilateral and domestic support have also contributed significantly to 
enabling developing countries to advance their work in the process to for mulate and 
implement national adaptation plans;  
10. Welcomes the approval by the Green Climate Fund secretariat, as at 4 December 2018, 
of 22 proposals from developing countries under the Green Climate Fund Readiness and 
Preparatory Support Programme to suppo rt the formulation of national adaptation plans 
                                                           
 1 See document FCCC/SBI/2018/INF.13, table 4, for a summary of measures undertaken by developing 
country Parties.  
 2 http://www4.unfccc.int/nap/Pages/national -adaptation -plans.aspx . 
 3 Decision 3/CP.20, paragraph 9.  FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
36  and/or other adaptation planning processes amounting to USD  81 million, of which 6 
proposals, amounting to USD  15 million, are from the least developed countries;  
11. Also welcomes  the approval by the Least Devel oped Countries Fund of 11 proposals, 
as at 30 September 2018, from the least developed countries for funding for the process to 
formulate and implement national adaptation plans amounting to USD  55 million;  
12. Notes  the value of engaging non -Party stakeholder s, including civil society, the 
private sector, financial institutions, cities and other subnational authorities, and local 
communities and indigenous peoples, as appropriate, in the process to formulate and 
implement national adaptation plans;  
13. Also notes with appreciation the workshop convened by the Adaptation Committee 
on fostering engagement of the agrifood sector in resilience to climate change;4 
14. Welcomes  the progress made by the Adaptation Committee and the Least Developed 
Countries Expert Group in th eir respective engagement with the Green Climate Fund on ways 
to enhance the process of accessing support for the formulation and implementation of 
national adaptation plans5 and encourages  its continuation;  
15. Notes with appreciation the work of relevant org anizations in providing technical 
support to countries on the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans;  
16. Notes that gaps and needs related to  the process to formulate and implement national 
adaptation plans remain;6 
17. Requests the Least De veloped Countries Expert Group, within its existing mandate 
and workplan, to consider gaps and needs related to the process to formulate and implement 
national adaptation plans that have been identified through the relevant work of the Least 
Developed Coun tries Expert Group and the Adaptation Committee and how to address them, 
and to include relevant information thereon in its report to the Subsidiary Body for 
Implementation at its fifty -first session ( December  2019) ; 
18. Also requests  the Adaptation Committee,  through its task force on national adaptation 
plans and within its existing mandate and workplan, to consider gaps and needs that have 
been identified through relevant work of the Least Developed Countries Expert Group and 
the Adaptation Committee and how  to address them, and include relevant information 
thereon in its annual report for 2019;  
19. Further requests the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to specify the actions and 
steps necessary to assess progress in the process to formulate and implement nation al 
adaptation plans at its fifty -fifth session (November 2021), with a view to launching the 
assessment not later than 2025 and noting plans for the first global stocktake;  
20. Notes the importance of vulnerability and risk assessments in setting priorities, 
mapping scenarios and understanding progress in implementing adaptation actions, and the 
important work of partner organizations of the Nairobi work programme on impacts, 
vulnerability and adaptation to climate change in providing information on methodologi es 
for understanding baselines and progression of vulnerability and risk to developing countries;  
21. Welcomes the efforts of the World Meteorological Organization and other relevant 
organizations in providing capacity -building to developing countries, as appr opriate, on the 
analysis of climate data and the development and application of climate change scenarios in 
vulnerability and risk assessment;  
22. Encourages relevant organizations to continue coordinating support related to the 
process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans and to continue sharing lessons 
learned;  
23. Invites  Parties to continue providing information on progress towards the achievement 
of the objectives of the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans and on 
                                                           
 4 See https://unfccc.int/node/182503 . 
 5 Decision 6/CP.22, paragraph 7.  
 6 FCCC/SBI/2018/6, paragraphs 29 –32. FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
 37 experience, best practices, lessons learned, gaps and needs, and support provided and 
received in the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans via the online 
questionnaire7 on NAP Central or other means as appropriate . 
7th plenary meeti ng 
13 December 2018  
                                                           
 7 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/NAPC/Pages/assessingprogress.aspx .  FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
38    Decision 9/CP.24  
  Report of the Adaptation Committee  
The Conference of the Parties ,  
1. Welcomes  the report of the Adaptation Committee,1 including the recommendations 
and the flexible workplan of the Committee for 2019 –2021 contained therein;  
2. Notes  with appreciation  the progress of the Adaptation Committee in implementing 
its 2016 –2018 workplan;2 
3. Welcomes  the technical expert meetings on adaptation3 organized as part of the 
technical examination process on adaptation, and the technical paper on opportunities and 
options for enhancing adaptation planning in relation to vulnerable ecosystems, communiti es 
and groups;4 
4. Expresses its appreciation  to the Parties and organizations that led and participated in 
the technical expert meetings on adaptation or organized regional technical expert meetings 
on adaptation in 2018;  
5. Encourages  Parties and organizations  to build on the outcomes of the regional 
technical expert meetings held in 2018 when planning and implementing adaptation action 
and to continue to organize such meetings in 2019 with a view to enhancing adaptation action 
and its overall coherence;  
6. Also e ncourages Parties to strengthen adaptation planning, including by engaging in 
the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans, taking into account 
linkages with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and possible co -benefits 
betw een mitigation and adaptation, and by mainstreaming adaptation in development 
planning;  
7. Urges  Parties and non -Party stakeholders to mainstream gender considerations in all 
stages of their adaptation planning processes, including national adaptation plans a nd the 
implementation of adaptation action, taking into account available guidance;5 
8. Encourages  Parties to apply a participatory approach to adaptation planning and 
implementation so as to make use of stakeholder input, including from the private sector, 
civil society, indigenous peoples, local communities, migrants, children and youth, persons 
with disabilities and people in vulnerable situations in general;  
9. Also encourages  Parties to take an iterative approach to adaptation planning, 
implementation and in vestment, with the long -term goal of transformational change, to 
ensure that adaptation is flexible, robust and not maladaptive and to allow for the integration, 
at least periodically, of the best available science;  
10. Further encourages  Parties to take into consideration and utilize, as appropriate, 
various approaches to adaptation planning, including community -based adaptation, 
ecosystem -based adaptation, livelihood and economic diversification and risk -based 
approaches, and to ensure that such approaches ar e not mutually exclusive but rather are 
complementary, allowing for synergy in enhancing resilience;  
11. Invites  relevant institutions under the Convention and non -Party stakeholders to 
strengthen support (financial, technical, technological and capacity -build ing) for adaptation 
planning, including for collecting climate data and information, noting the urgent need for 
adaptation action to address current and short - and long -term risks of climate change;  
                                                           
 1 FCCC/SB/2018/3.  
 2 Contained in document FCCC/SB/2012/3, annex II.  
 3 See http://tep -a.org . 
 4 FCCC/TP/2018/3.  
 5 See document FCCC/TP/2016/2.  FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
 39 12. Also invites  Parties and interested organizations to share case studies of initiatives that 
focus on ecosystems and adaptation planning for vulnerable communities and groups as 
agents of change;  
13. Requests  that the case studies referred to in paragraph 12 above be disse minated on 
the adaptation knowledge portal of the Nairobi work programme on impacts, vulnerability 
and adaptation to climate change with a view to enhancing the translation of knowledge into 
practice;  
14. Invites  Parties and relevant entities working on nation al adaptation goals and 
indicators to strengthen linkages with the monitoring systems of the Sustainable 
Development Goals and the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015 –2030 
taking into account:  
(a) The importance of designing adaptation monitoring  and evaluation systems 
according to countries’ overall objectives for adaptation, and of considering the benefits and 
drawbacks of quantitative and qualitative indicators when developing methodologies;  
(b) That although full and complete harmonization of the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development, the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015 –2030 
and the Paris Agreement may not be feasible or useful, some degree of synergy could be 
beneficial;  
(c) That enhancing individual and institutional technical cap acity for data 
collection and assessment of adaptation is an ongoing task for many countries, and that 
increased capacity could help to link data gathering and reporting systems for the three global 
agendas referred to in paragraph 14(b) above at the natio nal level;  
(d) That improved coordination results in a reduced reporting burden for countries 
and enhanced cost -effectiveness of measures that cut across the three global agendas;  
(e) That subnational monitoring and evaluation programmes should be linked with 
national-level monitoring and evaluation systems to provide a complete picture of adaptation 
action;  
15. Notes  with concern  the shortfall in the resources available to the Adaptation 
Committee, the need for supplementary financial resources and the estimated budge tary 
implications of the activities to be undertaken by the secretariat pursuant to decision 
1/CP.21;6 
16. Encourages  Parties to make available sufficient resources for the Adaptation 
Committee’s successful and timely implementation of its workplan for 2019 –2021; 
17. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
12th plenary meeting  
15 December 2018  
                                                           
 6 Information on the status of contributions is available in document FCCC/SBI/2018/INF.12 and 
information on budget performance in document FCCC/SBI/2018/16.  FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
40    Decision 10 /CP.24  
  Report of the Executive Committee of the Warsaw 
International Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated 
with Climate Change Impacts  
 The Conference of the Parties ,  
 Recalling decisions 3/CP.18, 2/CP.19 and 2/CP.20,  
 Also recalling Article 8 of the Paris Agreement,  
 Further recalling decision 4/CP.22, in which it recommended that a review of the 
Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated with Climate Change 
Impacts be held in 2019 and a technical paper be prepared as input, as well as that the 
subsidiary bodies finalize terms of reference for the review at their fiftieth sessions (June 
2019),  
 Recalling  decision 5/CP.23, in which it invited Parties, relevant organizations and 
other stakeholders to submit their views and inputs, by 1 February 2019, on possible elements 
to be included in the terms of reference for the review, for consideration by the subsidiary 
bodies at their sessions to be held in June 2019,  
 Noting the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Special Report on Global 
Warming of 1.5 °C,1  
1. Welcomes : 
(a) The annual report of the Executive Committee of the Warsaw International 
Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts;2  
(b) The progress made by the Executive Committee in implementing its five -year 
rolling workplan;3  
(c) The report of the task force on displacement4 and its comprehensive 
assessment of broader issues of displacement related to climate change in response to 
decision  1/CP.21, paragraph 49;  
(d) The report of the Suva expert dialogue,5 noting the role of the dialogue in 
informing the preparation of the technical paper referred to in decision 4/CP.22, 
paragraph  2(f);  
2. Notes with appreciation  the work undertaken by the organ izations6 comprising the 
task force on displacement  in response to decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 49;  
3. Invites Parties, bodies under the Convention and the Paris Agreement, United Nations 
agencies and relevant stakeholders to consider the recommendations cont ained in the annex 
when undertaking relevant work, as appropriate;  
                                                           
 1  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. 2018. Global Warming of 1.5 °C: An IPCC Special 
Report on the impacts of global warming of 1.5 °C above pre -industrial levels and related global 
greenhouse gas emission pathways, in the context of strengthening the global response to the threat of 
climate change, sustainable development, and efforts to eradicate poverty . Available at 
http://ipcc.ch/report/sr15/ . 
 2  FCCC /SB/2018/1.  
 3  Contained in the annex to document  FCCC/SB/2017/1/Add.1.  
 4  Available at http://unfccc.int/node/285 . 
 5 Available at https://unfccc.int/node/182364 . 
 6  The names of the organizations comprising the task force on displacement are listed in the annex.  FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
 41 4. Welcomes  the decision7 of the Executive Committee to extend the mandate of the task 
force on displacement  in accordance with terms of reference to be elaborated by the 
Executive Committee a t its next meeting;  
5. Encourages  the Executive Committee:  
(a) To seek ways to continue enhancing its responsiveness, effectiveness and 
performance in implementing activities in its five -year rolling workplan, particularly those 
under workstream (e);8 
(b) To continue  its work on human mobility under strategic workstream (d) of its 
five-year rolling workplan,9 including by considering the activities set out in paragraphs 38 
and 39 of its report referred to in paragraph 1(a) above;  
(c) To draw upon the work, information and  expertise of bodies under the 
Convention and the Paris Agreement, as well as international processes, such as the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 
2015 –2030, including when executing its work thr ough the technical expert group on 
comprehensive risk management established under workstream (c) of the five -year rolling 
workplan;10 
(d) To continue consideration of scientific information needs and knowledge gaps 
with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate C hange and other scientific organizations;  
(e) To increase its consideration of groups vulnerable to the adverse impacts of 
climate change when implementing its five -year rolling workplan;  
6. Also encourages  Parties and invites  relevant organizations to make avail able sufficient 
resources for the successful and timely implementation of the five -year rolling workplan of 
the Executive Committee, including, as applicable, the associated expert groups, 
subcommittees, panels, thematic advisory groups and task -focused ad  hoc working groups;  
7. Expresses  its appreciation to the organizers of and participants in the Suva expert 
dialogue, held during the first part of the forty -eighth sessions of the subsidiary bodies under 
the guidance of the Executive Committee and the Chair of the Subsidiary Body for 
Implementation;  
8. Invites  relevant organizations and other stakeholders to collaborate with the Executive 
Committee, including through partnerships, in developing and disseminating products that 
support national focal points, loss and damage contact points and other relevant entities in 
raising awareness of averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage;  
9. Takes note of the assistance provided by the Executive Committee to the secretariat 
in determining the scope of the technical  paper referred to in decision 4/CP.22, 
paragraph  2(f); 
10. Invites  Parties:  
(a) To consider developing policies, plans and strategies, as appropriate, and to 
facilitate coordinated action and the monitoring of progress, where applicable, in their efforts 
to avert, minimize and address loss and damage;  
(b) To take into consideration future climate risks when developing and 
implementing their relevant national plans and strategies that seek to avert, minimize and 
address loss and damage and reduce disaster risks, a s appropriate;  
                                                           
 7  See document FCCC/ SB/2018/1, paragraph 36.  
 8  Strategic workstream (e): enhanced cooperation and facilitation in relation to action and support, 
including finance, technology and capacity -building, t o address loss and damage associated with the 
adverse effects of climate change.  
 9  Strategic workstream (d): enhanced cooperation and facilitation in relation to human mobility, 
including migration, displacement and planned relocation.  
 10 Strategic work stream (c): enhanced cooperation and facilitation in relation to comprehensive risk 
management approaches.  FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
42  11. Takes  note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in this decision;  
12. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the avai lability of financial resources .  
 FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
 43  Annex  
Recommendations from the report of the Executive 
Committee of the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss 
and Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts on 
integrated approaches to averting, minimizing and 
addressing displacement related to the adverse impacts of 
climate change  
1. The following recommendations of the Executive Committee of the Warsaw 
International Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts are 
based on the work of the task force on displacement , established by the Executive Committee 
in response to decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 49:  
(a) Acknow ledge the inputs and contributions from participants of the stakeholder 
consultation workshop of the  task force on displacement  organized by the International 
Organization for Migration and the Platform on Disaster Displacement, and submissions 
from others ; 
(b) Take note of the report on the stakeholder consultation workshop of the task 
force on displacement ; 
(c) Strengthen coordination, coherence and collaboration across relevant bodies 
under the Convention and the Paris Agreement, and institutional arrangements, programmes 
and platforms, with a view to enhancing understanding of human mobility (including 
migration, displacement and planned relocation), both internal and cross -border, in the 
context of climate change, as they undertake their work, and in collaborat ion with the 
Executive Committee;  
(d) Invite bodies under the Convention and the Paris Agreement, as appropriate 
and in accordance with their mandates and workplans, to facilitate the efforts of countries to, 
inter alia, develop climate change related risk ass essments and improved standards for data 
collection on and analyses of internal and cross -border human mobility in a manner that 
includes the participation of communities affected by and at risk of displacement related to 
the adverse impacts of climate cha nge; 
(e) Invite the Adaptation Committee and the Least Developed Countries Expert 
Group, in accordance with their mandates and workplans, and in collaboration with the 
Executive Committee, to assist developing country Parties in integrating approaches to avert, 
minimize and address displacement related to the adverse impacts of climate change into 
relevant national planning processes, including the process to formulate and implement 
national adaptation plans, as appropriate;  
(f) Invite Parties to facilitate th e efforts of developing country Parties in the 
implementation of paragraph 2(g) below, as appropriate;  
(g) Invite Parties:  
(i) To consider formulating laws, policies and strategies, as appropriate, that 
reflect the importance of integrated approaches to avert, min imize and address 
displacement related to the adverse impacts of climate change and in the broader 
context of human mobility, taking into consideration their respective human rights 
obligations and, as appropriate, other relevant international standards an d legal 
considerations;  
(ii) To enhance research, data collection, risk analysis and sharing of information 
to better map, understand and manage human mobility related to the adverse impacts 
of climate change in a manner that includes the participation of commu nities affected 
and at risk of displacement related to the adverse impacts of climate change;  
(iii) To strengthen preparedness, including early warning systems, contingency 
planning, evacuation planning and resilience -building strategies and plans, and FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
44  develop i nnovative approaches, such as forecast -based financing,1 to avert, minimize 
and address displacement related to the adverse impacts of climate change;  
(iv) To integrate climate change related human mobility challenges and 
opportunities into national planning pr ocesses, as appropriate, by drawing on 
available tools, guidance and good practices, and consider communicating these 
efforts undertaken, as appropriate;  
(v) To recall the guiding principles on internal displacement and seek to strengthen 
efforts to find durab le solutions for internally displaced people when working to 
implement integrated approaches to avert, minimize and address displacement related 
to the adverse impacts of climate change, as appropriate;  
(vi) To facilitate orderly, safe, regular and responsible migration and mobility of 
people,2 as appropriate and in accordance with national laws and policies, in the 
context of climate change, by considering the needs of migrants and displaced 
persons, communities of origin, transit and destination, and by enhanc ing 
opportunities for regular migration pathways, including through labour mobility, 
consistent with international labour standards, as appropriate;  
(h) Invite United Nations agencies, relevant organizations and other stakeholders, 
as appropriate and in accord ance with their respective mandates:  
(i) To continue supporting efforts, including finance, technology and capacity -
building, of Parties and other actors, including with and for communities and local 
actors, in order to avert, minimize and address displacement  related to the adverse 
impacts of climate change, at all levels, including the community, national, regional 
and international levels;  
(ii) To support and enhance regional, subregional and transboundary cooperation, 
in relation to averting, minimizing and addr essing displacement related to the adverse 
impacts of climate change, including for risk and vulnerability assessments, mapping, 
data analysis, preparedness and early warning systems;  
(iii) To continue developing and sharing good practices, tools and guidance in  
relation to averting, minimizing and addressing displacement related to the adverse 
impacts of climate change, inter alia, in:  
a. Understanding risk;  
b. Accessing support, including finance, technology and capacity -
building;  
c. Providing assistance to, and protect ion of, within existing national laws 
and international protocols and conventions, as applicable, affected individuals 
and communities;  
d. Applying international legal instruments and normative frameworks, as 
appropriate;  
(i) Invite relevant United Nations agenci es and other relevant stakeholders to 
provide the Executive Committee with information arising from their activities undertaken 
in relation to the work referred to in paragraph 1(h) above with a view to informing the work 
and future action of the Executive  Committee and its expert groups, Parties and other 
stakeholders;  
(j) Invite relevant United Nations agencies and other stakeholders to engage with 
bodies under the Convention, especially the Executive Committee, when facilitating the 
efforts of States to addr ess challenges and opportunities associated with climate change 
related human mobility, including the Global Compact for Migration and the work of the 
international migration review forum, the United Nations Network on Migration and other 
                                                           
 1 Forecast -based financing systems link climate and meteorological data with early warning systems 
and early action. They can play a supportive role  in averting, minimizing and addressing impacts, 
including displacement, in the context of climate change.  
 2 See United Nations General Assembly document A/RES/70/1.  FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
 45 relevant internat ional frameworks and programmes of action, as appropriate, to avoid 
duplication on climate change aspects;  
(k) Invite the Secretary -General to consider steps, including a system -wide 
strategic review, for greater coherence in the United Nations system to addre ss human 
mobility in the context of climate change, and to facilitate the inclusion of integrated 
approaches to avert, minimize and address displacement related to the adverse impacts of 
climate change in the work of the envisaged high -level panel on inter nally displaced persons, 
as appropriate.  
2. The technical members of the task force on displacement  are from the International 
Labour Organization, the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, 
the International Organization for Migrat ion, the Platform on Disaster Displacement, the 
United Nations Development Programme, the Office of the United Nations High 
Commissioner for Refugees, and civil society groups as represented by the Advisory Group 
on Climate Change and Human Mobility, which  includes the Internal Displacement 
Monitoring Centre, the Norwegian Refugee Council, the Hugo Observatory, the Arab 
Network for Environment and Development, and Refugees International.  
9th plenary meeting  
15 December 2018FCCC/CP/2018/10/Add.1  
46    Decision 11 /CP.24  
  Review of the terms of reference of the Consultative Group of 
Experts on National Communications from Parties not 
included in Annex  I to the Convention  
 The Conference of the Parties , 
 Recalling  the relevant provisions of the Convention, in particular Article 4, paragraphs 
1, 3 and 7, and Article 12, paragraphs 1, 4, 5 and 7,  
 Also recalling  decisions 8/CP.5, 3/CP.8, 17/CP.8, 8/CP.11,  5/CP.15, 1/CP.16, 
2/CP.17, 14/CP.17, 17/CP.18, 18/CP.18, 13/CP.19, 19/CP.19, 20/CP.19 and 20/CP.22,  
 Acknowledging the contributions of the Consultative Group of Experts on National 
Communications from Parties not included in Annex I to the Convention to enhancing 
capacity -building and participation in measurement, reporting and verification arrangements 
for developing countries under the Convention,   
Recognizing that the Consultative Group of Experts plays  an important role in 
facilitating technical advic e and support for the preparation and submission of national 
communications and biennial update reports,   
Also recognizing that the preparation of national communications is a continuous 
process,  
1. Decides  to extend the term of the Consultative Group of Experts on National 
Communications from Parties not included in Annex I to the Convention for eight years , 
from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2026, and to rename it the Consultative Group of 
Experts;  
2. Also de cides  that the Consultative Group of Experts , in fulfilling its mandate, shall 
function in accordance with decision 19/CP.19 and its annex;  
3. Invites  a representative of Parties not included in Annex I to the Convention that are 
not represented by the consti tuencies referred to in decision 3/CP.8, annex, paragraph s 3–8, 
in the membership of the Consultative Group of Experts to continue to participate in the work 
of the Group  in an observer capacity;  
4. Notes  decision 18/CMA.1 , paragraph 15, whereby the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  decided that the Consultative 
Group of Experts  shall serve the Paris Agreement starting from 1 January 2019 to support 
the implementation of the enhanced transparency fr amework under Article 13 of the Paris 
Agreement;  
5. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation, at its fiftieth session (June 2019), 
to review and revise the terms of reference of the Consultative Group of Experts  taking into 
account the functions referr ed to in the annex to decision 19/CP.19, annual reports of the 
Consultative Group of Experts , and decision 18/CMA.1, paragraph 15 , with a view to 
recommending a draft decision for consideration and adoption by the Conference of the 
Parties at its twenty -fifth session ( December  2019) ; 
6. Also requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.   
9th plenary meeting  
15 December 2018  
      
 
GE.19-03299 (E) 

Conference of the Parties  
  Report of the Conferenc e of the Parties on its twenty -fourth  
session, held in Katowice  from 2 to 15 Dece mber 201 8 
Addendum  
 Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -
fourth  session  
Contents  
  Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties  
Decision  Page 
  12/CP.24  Review of the Climate Technology Centre and Network  .................   2 
  13/CP.24  Enhancing climate technology development and transfer through  
the Technology Mechanism  ................................ ..............................   3 
  14/CP.24  Linkages between the Technology Mec hanism and the Financial  
Mechanism of the Convention  ................................ ..........................   5 
  15/CP.24  Annual technical progress report of the Paris Committee on  
Capacity -building  ................................ ................................ .............   6 
  16/CP.24  Least developed countries work programme  ................................ ....  7 
  17/CP.24  Dates and venues of future sessions ................................ ..................   9 
  18/CP.24  Administrative, financial and institutional matters  ...........................   11 
Resolution   
  1/CP.24  Expression of gratitude to the Government of the Republic of  
Poland and the people of the city of Katowice  ................................ .  13     
United Nations  FCCC /CP/201 8/10/Add. 2 
  
Distr.: General  
19 March  2019 
 
Original: English  
FCCC/CP/2018/ 10/Add.2  
2   Decision 1 2/CP.24  
Review of the Climate Technology Centre and Network  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  decisions 1/CP.16, 2/CP.17, 1/CP.18, 14/CP.18, 14/CP.23 and 15/CP.23,  
1. Notes the management response1 of the United Nations Environment Programme on 
the relevant findings and recommendations of the independent review of the effective 
implementation of the Climate Technology Centre and Network,2 in response to 
decision  14/CP.23, paragraph 7;  
2. Notes with appreciation  that the Climate Technology Centre and Network has 
undertaken initial efforts in response to the relevant recommendations referred to in 
paragrap h 1 above;  
3. Invites Parties, national designated entities and the United Nations Environment 
Programme as host of the Climate Technology Centre, in collaboration with the United 
Nations Industrial Development Organization and the Advisory Board of the Clima te 
Technology Centre and Network, to implement the relevant recommendations referred to in 
paragraph 1 above when implementing their further activities relevant to the work of the 
Climate Technology Centre and Network;  
4. Also invites the operating entities o f the Financial Mechanism to consider 
implementing the relevant recommendations referred to in paragraph 1 above when 
implementing their further activities relevant to the work of the Climate Technology Centre 
and Network;  
5. Further invites Parties and the C limate Technology Centre and Network to enhance 
the provision of support for strengthening the capacity of national designated entities, as 
appropriate;  
6. Requests the Climate Technology Centre and Network to include in the joint annual 
report of the Techno logy Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Centre and 
Network for 2019 and in the subsequent reports to the Conference of the Parties, through the 
subsidiary bodies, information on its plans and actions undertaken in response to the relevant 
recom mendations referred to in paragraph 1 above, taking into account Parties’ deliberations 
at this session;  
7. Also requests the secretariat to organize a dialogue, in conjunction with the fifty -fifth 
session of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation (November 2021), to consider the 
findings of the second independent review of the effective implementation of the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network, pursuant to decision 14/CP.23, paragraph 10.   
7th plenary meeting  
13 December 2018  
 
                                                           
 1 FCCC/SBI/2018/INF.5.  
 2 FCCC/CP/2017/3.  FCCC/CP/2018/ 10/Add.2  
 3   Decision 13/CP.24  
  Enhancing climate technology development and transfer 
through the Technology Mechanism  
 The Conference of the Parties ,  
 Recalling decisions 1/CP.18, 13/CP.18, 17/CP.20, 12/CP.21, 15/CP.22, 3/CP.23, 
13/CP.23 and 15/CP.23,  
1. Welcomes the joint annual report of the Technology Executive Committee and the 
Climate Technology Centre and Network for 20181 and the progress of their wo rk on 
facilitating the effective implementation of the Technology Mechanism;  
2. Notes the collaboration of the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network;  
3. Encourages  the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technolo gy 
Centre and Network  to enhance their collaboration, including to ensure the coherence and 
synergy of their work;  
4. Notes the challenges and lessons learned as reported by the Technology Executive 
Committee and the Climate Technology Centre and Network, and  encourages them to further 
improve the reporting on this matter in their future joint annual reports, including on their 
efforts to address the challenges;  
5. Notes with appreciation  the enhanced engagement and collaboration of the 
Technology Executive Committee, the Climate Technology Centre and Network and the 
Green Climate Fund on innovation and collaborative research, development and 
demonstration, including the promotion of clima te technology incubators and accelerators, 
and encourages  their continued and enhanced collaboration;  
6. Takes note of the collaboration of the Technology Executive Committee and the 
Climate Technology Centre and Network with the operating entities of the Fin ancial 
Mechanism, constituted bodies under the Convention and other relevant organizations;  
7. Welcomes  the information provided by the Technology Executive Committee and the 
Climate Technology Centre and Network on the monitoring and evaluation of the impact  of 
their activities, and encourages  them to continue reporting on this matter and to include 
information on tracking of progress and on methodologies used;  
I. Activities and performance of the Technology Executive 
Committee in 2018  
8. Invites Parties and all relevant stakeholders working on technology development and 
transfer, when implementing climate technology action, to consider the recommendations of 
the Technology Executive Committee for follow -up actions based on the outcomes of 
the 2018 technical exper t meetings, as well as its key messages for 2018 on climate 
technology entrepreneurship, South –South and triangular cooperation on climate 
technologies, and technology needs assessments, all of which are contained in the joint 
annual report referred to in paragraph 1 above;  
9. Also invites the Technology Executive Committee to continue enhancing its 
communication and outreach strategy with a view to expanding the reach of its outputs to 
national designated entities and other regional stakeholders;  
                                                           
 1 FCCC/SB/2018/2 . FCCC/CP/2018/ 10/Add.2  
4  II. Activities a nd performance of the Climate Technology Centre 
and Network in 2018  
10. Notes the progress made by the Climate Technology Centre and Network in 2018 in 
implementing its programme of work;  
11. Welcomes with appreciation  the efforts of the Climate Technology Centre and 
Network to mobilize additional resources for implementing its functions, and encourages  the 
continuation of those efforts;  
12. Encourages  the Climate Technology Centre and Network to enhance its engagement 
with the Green Climate Fund with respect to utiliz ing the Readiness and Preparatory Support 
Programme and the Project Preparation Facility;  
13. Also encourages  the enhanced engagement of the Climate Technology Centre and 
Network with the Green Climate Fund, including through the strengthening of the 
collabora tion between national designated authorities for the Green Climate Fund and 
national designated entities for technology development and transfer;  
14. Notes  that the Climate Technology Centre and Network continues to face challenges 
that require attention regar ding sustainable funding for implementing its functions, and that 
further financial support should be provided, recalling decision 2/CP.17, paragraphs 139 
and 141; 
15. Also notes  that an increasing number of the technical assistance requests submitted to 
the C limate Technology Centre and Network are directly related to recommendations and 
priorities identified in technology needs assessments, and encourages the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network to continue to prioritize the implementation of the outcome 
of the technology needs assessments;  
16. Decides to extend to two years the maximum term of office of members of the 
Advisory Board of the Climate Technology Centre and Network representing environmental 
non-governmental organizations, business and industry non -governmental organizations and 
research and independent non -governmental organizations to allow their constituencies to 
contribute more effectively to the Board’s discussions and to bring their terms of office in 
line with those of the other members.2 
8th plenary meeting  
14 December 2018  
                                                           
 2 As per the  request of those members, supported by the  Advisory Board; see document 
FCCC/SB/2018/2, paragraph 140 . This amends paragraph 9 of the Constitution of the Advisory Board 
(decision 14/CP.18, annex II) and paragraph 9 of the Board’s rules of procedure (decision 25/CP.19, 
annex II).   FCCC/CP/2018/ 10/Add.2  
 5   Decision 14/CP.24  
  Linkages between the Technology Mechanism and the 
Financial Mechanism of the Convention  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling decisions 1/CP.18, paragraph 62, 13/CP.21 and 14/CP.22,  
1. Welcomes  the information provided by the Technology Executive Committee, the 
Climate Technology Centre and Network, the Global Environment Facility and the Green 
Climate Fund on their actions in strengthening the linkages between the Technology 
Mechanism and the F inancial Mechanism in their annual reports to the Conference of the 
Parties in response to decision 14/CP.22, paragraph 9;  
2. Acknowledges  the ongoing coordination between the national designated entities for 
technology development and transfer and the nation al designated authorities of the Green 
Climate Fund as well as the Global Environment Facility focal points, and encourages  
enhanced coordination in this area;  
3. Welcomes with appreciation  the increased engagement between the Climate 
Technology Centre and Ne twork and the Green Climate Fund with respect to using the 
Readiness and Preparatory Support Programme of the Fund, and notes with appreciation  the 
support provided by the Fund for readiness requests submitted by national designated 
authorities;  
4. Invites the Climate Technology Centre and Network and the Green Climate Fund to 
continue enhancing collaboration, wherein the services and expertise of the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network can be used to strengthen proposals seeking support under 
the Readiness and Preparatory Support Programme of the Fund, noting the need for such 
engagement in supporting developing country Parties in building their capacity for 
undertaking technology projects and programmes;  
5. Welcomes  the support provided for technology developm ent and transfer by the 
Global Environment Facility and the Green Climate Fund through projects and programmes, 
including for projects resulting from technology needs assessments;  
6. Invites developing country Parties to seek support from the Climate Technolo gy 
Centre and Network to develop and submit technology -related projects, including those 
resulting from technology needs assessments and from the technical assistance of the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network, to the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism for 
implementation, in accordance with their respective policies and processes;  
7. Also invites  the Climate Technology Centre and Network to consult with the Green 
Climate Fund and the Global Environment Facility to identify ways to enhance informat ion-
sharing among national designated entities, national designated authorities and Global 
Environment Facility focal points;  
8. Welcomes  with appreciation  the collaboration between the Technology Executive 
Committee, the Climate Technology Centre and Network and the Green Climate Fund on 
climate technology incubators and accelerators, noting that this will help inform the Green 
Climate Fund as it develops t he terms of reference for a request for proposals to support 
climate technology incubators and accelerators, in response to decision 13/CP.21;  
9. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation, at its fifty -third session (November 
2020), to take stock of pro gress in strengthening the linkages between the Technology 
Mechanism and the Financial Mechanism with a view to recommending a draft decision on 
this matter, including on the consideration of a conclusion on this matter, for consideration 
and adoption by t he Conference of the Parties at its twenty -sixth session (November 2020).  
8th plenary meeting  
14 December 2018  FCCC/CP/2018/ 10/Add.2  
6    Decision 15/CP.24 
  Annual technical progress report of the Paris Committee on 
Capacity -building  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  decisions 2/CP.17, 1/CP.21, 2/CP.22, 16/CP.22 and 16/CP.23,  
1. Welcomes the annual technical progress report of the Paris Committee on  Capacity -
building for 2018,1 taking note of the recommendations contained therein;  
2. Invites Parties, the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism, the constituted 
bodies under the Convention, United Nations organizations, observers and other stakehold ers 
to consider the recommendations referred to in paragraph 1 above and to take any necessary 
action, as appropriate and in accordance with their mandates ;  
3. Welcomes the collaboration of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building with non -
Party stakeholders , including through its capacity -building hub and the use of social media 
tools;   
4. Invites Parties and relevant institutions to provide support and resources to the Paris 
Committee on Capacity -building in implementing its rolling workplan for 2017 –2019 in t he 
light of the aim of the Committee established in decision 1/CP.21 ;  
5. Takes note of the decision of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building to continue 
its 2018 focus area of capacity -building activities for the implementation of nationally 
determined co ntributions in the context of the Paris Agreement in 2019;2  
6. Requests the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to thematically align future 
meetings of the Durban Forum with the annual focus area of the Paris Committee on 
Capacity -building, taking note of th e recommendation of the Committee contained in its 2018 
technical progress report .  
7th plenary meeting  
13 December 2018  
                                                           
 1 FCCC/SBI/2018/15. Prepared in accordance with decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 80 . 
 2 FCCC/SBI/2018/15, paragraph 8(a).  FCCC/CP/2018/ 10/Add.2  
 7   Decision 16/CP.24  
  Least developed countries work programme  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  decisions 5/CP.7, 29/CP.7, 4/CP.11, 8/CP.13, 6/CP.16, 5/CP.17, 12/CP.18, 
3/CP.20, 4/CP.21 and 19/CP.21,  
Recognizing  the specific needs and special situations of the least developed 
countries referred to in Article 4, paragraph 9, of the Convention,  
Having considered the report on the 33rd meeting of the Least Developed Countries 
Expert Group and the views of Parties on  the least developed countries work programme,  
Acknowledging that, because of their development status, climate change risks 
magnify the development challenges for the least developed country Parties,  
Also acknowledging  that the human, infrastructural and  economic conditions of the 
least developed countries severely limit their capacities to participate effectively in the 
climate change process,  
Noting the particular support needs of the least developed countries with respect to 
addressing climate change, and the importance of the least developed countries work 
programme in this regard,  
Also noting the relevance of climate change action to the achievement of the 
Sustainable Development Goals,  
1. Notes with satisfaction the support provided1 under and outside t he Convention for 
the implementation of the elements of the work programme for the implementation of 
Article  4, paragraph 9, of the Convention (the least developed countries work programme) 
contained in decision 5/CP.7, paragraphs 11 –17; 
2. Takes note  of the support provided to the least developed countries for the process to 
formulate and implement national adaptation plans;2 
3. Decides  to update the elements of the least developed countries work programme as 
listed below in order to reflect the needs of the lea st developed countries, taking full account 
of the numerous groups and bodies that are involved in assisting countries with these 
activities, noting the importance of avoiding duplication of work, and taking into account 
available resources:  
(a) Continue stren gthening existing, and where needed establishing, national 
climate change secretariats and/or focal points to enable the effective implementation of the 
Convention, the Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement in the least developed country 
Parties;  
(b) Continue  providing training, as needed, in negotiating skills and language to 
develop the capacity of negotiators from the least developed countries to participate 
effectively in the climate change process;  
(c) Supporting the process to formulate and implement nationa l adaptation plans 
and related relevant adaptation strategies, including national adaptation programmes of 
action;  
(d) Supporting the preparation and implementation of successive nationally 
determined contributions;  
(e) Continue promoting public awareness programm es to ensure the dissemination 
of information on climate change issues;  
                                                           
 1 See decisions 5/CP.7, p aragraphs 13 and 14, 3/CP.11, paragraph 1(b), and 5/CP.14, paragraph 2.  
 2 See decisions 3/CP.17, annex, 5/CP.17, paragraphs 12 –31, 12/CP.18, paragraphs 1 –4, and 1 /CP.21, 
paragraph 46.  FCCC/CP/2018/ 10/Add.2  
8  (f) Continue strengthening cooperative action on adaptation technology 
development and transfer;  
(g) Continue strengthening the capacity of meteorological and hydrological 
services to collect,  analyse, model, interpret and disseminate weather and climate information 
to support the implementation of adaptation actions;  
(h) Continue supporting capacity -building initiatives to enable effective 
engagement in reporting and review activities under the Co nvention and the Paris Agreement, 
as needed;  
4. Notes  that support for the work programme should come from a variety of sources, 
including the Least Developed Countries Fund,3 the Global Environment Facility, the Green 
Climate Fund, and other bilateral and mu ltilateral sources within their respective mandates, 
and the private sector, as appropriate;  
5. Requests the Least Developed Countries Expert Group to support, and encourages  
other relevant bodies and programmes under and outside the Convention and the Paris 
Agreement, including United Nations entities, to assist with, in accordance with their 
respective mandates, as appropriate, the implementation of the least developed countries 
work programme and to include information on this in their reports, as appropria te;  
6. Also requests  the Least Developed Countries Expert Group to continue considering 
ways to promote South –South cooperation in the implementation of the least developed 
countries work programme . 
7th plenary meeting  
13 December 2018  
                                                           
 3 See decision 5/CP.7, paragraph 12.  FCCC/CP/2018/ 10/Add.2  
 9   Decision 17/CP.24  
  Dates and venues of future sessions  
The Conference of the Parties ,  
 Recalling Article 7, paragraph 4, of the Convention,  
 Also recalling United Nations General Assembly resolution 40/243 of 18 December 
1985 on the pattern of conferences,   
 Further recalling rule 22, paragraph 1, of the draft rules of procedure being applied,  
regarding the rotation of the office of President among the five regional groups,  
I. Dates and venues of future sessions  
A. 2019  
1. Decides to accept with appreciation the offer of the Government of Chile to host the 
twenty -fifth session of the Conference of the Parties, the fifteenth session of the Conference 
of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the second 
session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris  
Agreement;  
2. Acknowledges the request of the Government of Chile to review the planned dates of 
the sessions referred to in paragraph 1 above, and invites the Executive Secretary to conduct 
consultations on the matter and to inform the Bureau of the outcome of the consultations;   
3. Invites the Bureau to decide on the dates of the sessi ons; 
4. Requests the Executive Secretary to continue consultations with the Government of 
Chile and to negotiate and finalize a Host Country Agreement for convening the sessions, in 
conformity with United Nations General Assembly resolution 40/243 and in comp liance with 
the provisions of United Nations administrative instruction ST/AI/342, with a view to 
concluding and signing the Host Country Agreement not later than the fiftieth sessions of the 
subsidiary bodies (June 2019) for its prompt implementation;  
5. Also requests the Executive Secretary to provide the host country with technical 
support and guidance on UNFCCC policies and requirements, taking into account the issues 
raised by Parties regarding the organization of such sessions, and to report back regular ly to 
the Bureau ; 
B. 2020  
6. Notes that, in keeping with the principle of rotation among the regional groups, the 
President of the twenty -sixth session of the Conference of the Parties, the sixteenth session 
of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meetin g of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol 
and the third session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to 
the Paris Agreement would come from the Western European and other States ; 
7. Invites Parties to undertake further consultat ions on the hosting of the sessions 
referred to in paragraph 6 above ; 
8. Requests the Subsidiary Body for Implementation, at its fiftieth session, to consider 
the issue of the host of the sessions referred to in paragraph 6 above and to recommend a 
draft deci sion on the matter for consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties 
at its twenty -fifth session ( December  2019);  FCCC/CP/2018/ 10/Add.2  
10  II. Calendar of meetings of the Convention, Kyoto Protocol and 
Paris Agreement bodies  
9. Decides to adopt the following dates for the sessional periods in 2023:  
(a) First sessional period: Monday, 5 June, to Thursday, 15 June;  
(b) Second sessional period: Monday, 6 November, to Friday, 17 November.  
8th plenary meeting  
14 December 2018FCCC/CP/2018/ 10/Add.2  
 11   Decision 18/CP.24  
  Administrative, financial and institutional matters  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  the financial procedures for the Conference of the Parties  to the United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, its subsidiary bodies and its 
permanent secretariat,1 
Having  considered  the information contained in the documents prepared by the 
secretariat on administrative, financial and institutional mat ters,2 
Noting that notifications to Parties of their contributions for 2019 were sent to them 
on 30 September 2018,  
I. Budget performance for the biennium 2018 –2019  
1. Takes note  of the information contained in the report on budget performance for the 
biennium 2 018–2019 as at 30 June 20183 and the note on the status of contributions to the 
trust funds administered by the secretariat as at 16 November 2018;4 
2. Expresses its appreciation  to Parties that made contributions to the core budget in a 
timely manner;  
3. Expresses concern  regarding the high level of outstanding contributions to the core 
budget for the current and previous bienniums, which has resulted in difficulties with cash 
flow and the effective implementation of activities;  
4. Strongly urges  Parties that  have not made contributions in full to the core budget for 
the current and/or previous bienniums to do so without further delay;  
5. Calls upon  Parties to make their contributions to the core budget for 2019 in a timely 
manner, bearing in mind that contributi ons are due on 1 January of each year in accordance 
with the financial procedures for the Conference of the Parties;  
6. Expresses its appreciation  for the contributions to the Trust Fund for Participation in 
the UNFCCC Process and to the Trust Fund for Supple mentary Activities received from 
Parties, including those contributions that allow for greater flexibility in allocation;  
7. Urges  Parties to further contribute to the Trust Fund for Participation in the UNFCCC 
Process in order to ensure the widest possible p articipation in the negotiations in 2019, and 
to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities;  
8. Reiterates its appreciation  to the Government of Germany for its annual voluntary 
contribution to the core budget of EUR 766,938 and its special contribution  of 
EUR 1,789,522 as Host Government of the secretariat;  
9. Requests  the Executive Secretary to take further measures to recover outstanding 
contributions and encourages  Parties to pay those outstanding contributions as soon as 
possible;  
                                                           
 1 Decision 15/CP.1, annex I.  
 2 FCCC/SBI/2018/16 and Add.1 and 2, FCCC/SBI/2018/INF.11 and Add.1 , FCCC/SBI/2018/INF.12 , 
FCCC/SBI/2018/INF.16 , FCCC/SBI/2018/INF.17 , FCCC/SBI/2018/INF.18  and 
FCCC/SBI/2018/INF.19.  
 3 FCCC/SBI/2018/16 and Add.1 and 2. 
 4 FCCC/SBI/2018/INF.12.  FCCC/CP/2018/ 10/Add.2  
12  II. Audit report and financial  statements for 2017  
10. Takes note  of the audit report of the United Nations Board of Auditors5 and the 
financial statements for 2017, which include recommendations, and the comments of the 
secretariat thereon;  
11. Expresses its appreciation  to the United Nations  for arranging the audit of the 
accounts of the Convention;  
12. Also expresses its appreciation  to the auditors for the valuable observations and 
recommendations and the presentation made thereon to Parties;  
13. Requests  the Executive Secretary to implement the re commendations of the auditors, 
as appropriate, in particular those related to outstanding contributions and the policies on 
hiring consultants and individual contractors, and to update Parties on progress in the next 
audit report;  
III. Other budgetary matters  
14. Also r equests  the Executive Secretary to present the outcome of its review of the 
secretariat’s operations and structure, including on the synergy and prioritization of its 
activities, with a view to reducing redundancies and increasing cost -efficiency, in the context 
of the programme budget for 2020 –2021;  
15. Further requests  the Executive Secretary  to prepare, regularly update and publish 
before each session of the subsidiary bodies brief reports on standard costs and, if available, 
options for reducing the co st of activities where practicable;  
16. Requests  the Executive Secretary  to provide budgetary cost implications in pre -
session documents if they include suggestions for new mandates to the secretariat and if 
sufficient information is available on the details of the proposed activities;  
17. Also requests  the Executive Secretary  to provide any other such information to Parties 
as may be required to ensure that the budgetary implications of decisions and conclusions, 
including those proposed in pre -session documents,  can be taken into account in advance of 
decision -making.   
12th plenary meeting  
15 December 2018  
                                                           
 5 FCCC/SBI/20 18/INF.11 and Add.1.  FCCC/CP/2018/ 10/Add.2  
 13 Resolution 1/CP.24  
  Expression of gratitude to the Government of the Republic of 
Poland and the people of the city of Katowice  
Resolution submitted by Fiji  
The Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol  and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement , 
  Having met in Katowice from 2 to 14 December 2018,  
1. Express their profound gratitude to the Government of the Republic of Poland for 
having made it possible f or the twenty -fourth session of the Conference of the Parties, the 
fourteenth session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to 
the Kyoto Protocol and the third part of the first session of the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement to be held in Katowice;  
2. Request the Government of the Republic of Poland to convey to the city and people 
of Katowice the gratitude of the Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement for the hospitality and warmth 
extended to the participants.  
12th plenary meeting  
15 December 2018  
      
GE.20 -04092(E)  

Conference of the Parties  
  Report of the Conference of the Parties on its twenty -fifth 
session, held in Madrid  from 2 to 1 5 December 2019  
 Addendum  
 Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -
fifth session  
Contents  
  Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties  
 Decision  Page  
  1/CP.25  Chile Madrid Time for Action  ................................ ..........................   2 
  2/CP.25  Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated  
with Climate Change Impacts and its 2019 review   ..........................   5 
  3/CP.25  Enhanced Lima work programme on gender and its gender  
action plan  ................................ ................................ ........................   6 
  4/CP.25  Workpl an of the forum on the impact of the implementation of  
response measures and its Katowice Committee of Experts on the  
Impacts of the Implementation of Response Measures  ....................   16 
  5/CP.25  Scope of the second periodic review of the long -term global goal  
under the Convention and of overall progress towards  
achieving it  ................................ ................................ .......................   26 
  6/CP.25  Revision of the UNFCCC reporting guidelines on national  
communications for Parties included in Annex I to the  
Convention  ................................ ................................ ........................   28 
   United Nations  FCCC /CP/2019/13/Add.1  
  
Distr.: General  
16 March 2020  
 
Original: English  
FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
2    Deci sion 1/CP.25  
  Chile Madrid Time for Action  
 The Conference of the Parties , 
 Recalling decisions 1/CP.19, 1/CP.20,  1/CP.21, 1/CP.22, 1/CP.23  and 1/CP.24 , 
 Noting decision 1/CMA.2 , 
 Cognizant of the efforts and concerns of civil society , in particular of youth  and 
indigenous peoples , in calling for urgent and ambitious global climate action,  
1. Recognizes  the role of multilateralism and the Convention, including its processes and 
principles, in addressing climate change and its impacts ; 
2. Also recognizes  the important advances made through the UNFCCC multilateral 
process over the past 25 years , including in the context of the Convention, the Kyoto Protocol 
and the Paris Agreement;  
3. Notes  with concern  the state of the global climate system;  
4. Recognizes  that action taken to address climate change is most effective if it is based 
on best available science and continually re -evaluated in the light of new findings;  
5. Also recognizes  the role of the Intergover nmental Panel on Climate Change in 
providing scientific input to inform Parties in strengthening the global response to the threat 
of climate change, in the context of sustainable development and efforts to eradicate poverty ; 
6. Expresses  its appreciation and  gratitude  to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change and the scientific community for providing the 2019 S pecial Reports,1 which reflect 
the best available science , and encourages  Parties to continue to support the work of the 
Intergovernmental Pane l on Climate Change ; 
7. Invites  Parties to make use of the information contained in the Special Reports referred 
to in paragraph 6 above in their discussions under all relevant agenda items of the UNFCCC 
governing and subsidiary  bodies;  
8. Re-emphasizes with se rious concern  the urgent need to address the significant gap 
between the aggregate effect of Parties’ mitigation efforts in terms of global annual emissions 
of greenhouse gases by 2020 and aggregate emission pathways consistent with holding the 
increase in  the global average temperature to well below 2 °C above pre -industrial levels and 
pursuing efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5 °C above pre -industrial levels;  
9. Recalls  that the current need for adaptation is significant and that greater level s of 
mitigation can reduce the need for additional adaptation efforts, and that greater adaptation 
needs can involve greater adaptation costs;  
10. Stresses  the urgency of enhanced ambition in order to ensure the highest possible 
mitigation and adaptation efforts by all Parties;  
11. Recalls  the commitment made by developed country Parties, in the context of 
meaningful mitigation action s and transparency on implem entation, to a goal of mobilizing 
jointly USD 100 billion per year by 2020 to address the needs of developing country Parties , 
in accordance with decision 1/CP.16 ;2  
12. Emphasiz es the continued challenges that developing countries face in accessing 
financial,  technology and capacity -building support , and recognizes  the urgent need to 
                                                           
 1 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. 2019. IPCC Special Report on Climate Change, 
Desertification, Land Degradation, Sustainable Land Management, Food Security, and Greenhouse 
Gas Fl uxes in Terrestrial Ecosystems . PR Shukla, J Skea, E Calvo Buendia, et al. (eds.). Available at 
https://www.ipcc.ch/report/srccl/ ; and Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. 2019. IPCC 
Special Report on the Ocean and Cryosphere in a Changing Climate . H-O Pörtner, DC Roberts, 
V Masson -Delmotte, et al. (eds.). Available at https://www.ipcc.ch/srocc/home/ . 
 2 Decision 1/CP.16, para. 98.  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
 3 enhance the provision of support to developing country Parties for strengthening  their 
national adaptation and mitigation efforts;  
13. Calls  on international entities, including fina ncial institutions, to continue supporting 
the development and implementation of measures to avert, minimize and address the adverse 
impacts of climate change;  
14. Recalls  that the provision of scaled -up financial resources should aim to achieve a 
balance betw een adaptation and mitigation, taking into account country -driven strategies, and 
the priorities and needs of developing country Parties, especially those that are particularly 
vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change and have significant capaci ty constraints, 
such as the least developed countries and small island developing States, considering the need 
for public and grant -based resources for adaptation;  
15. Underlines the essential  contribution of nature to addressing climate change and its 
impacts  and the need to address biodiversity loss and climate change in an integrated manner;  
16. Recalls the imperatives of a just transition of the workforce and the creation of decent 
work and quality  jobs in accordance with nationally defined development priorit ies; 
17. Welcomes  the adoption of the enhanced five -year Lima work programme on gender 
and its gender action plan, which promotes gender equality and women’s empowerment in 
the UNFCCC process , and encourages  Parties to advance its implementation;  
18. Acknowledges  that the stocktakes in 2018 and 20193 helped  to highlight  and enhance  
the understanding of efforts of, and challenges faced by, Parties in relation to action and 
support in the pre -2020 period as well as of the work of the UNFCCC bodies in relati on to 
that period ; 
19. Decides  to hold, at its twenty -sixth  session  (November 2020) , a round table among 
Parties and non -Party stakeholders on  pre-2020 implementation and ambition;  
20. Invites  Parties and non -Party stakeholders to submit inputs via the submission portal4 
by September  2020  to inform the round table  referred to in paragraph  19 above;  
21. Requests  the secretariat to prepare a summary  repor t by September 202 1 on the basis 
of the outcomes of the round table referred in paragraph 19 above to serve as an input for the 
second periodic review  of the long -term global goal under the Convention and of overall 
progress towards achieving it ; 
22. Commends the President of the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -fifth session 
for convening high -level ministerial events at the session, aimed at improving climate action, 
especially with regard to agriculture, energy, finance and science;  
23. Notes with appreciation  the organization by the President of the Conference of the 
Parties at its twenty -fifth session of a ministerial dialogue on adaptation ambition, which 
exemplified the broad support for, and high -level engagement among Parties on, enhanced 
adap tation action ; 
24. Welcomes  the initiative of the United Nations Secretary -General to convene the 2019 
Climate Action Summit , which helped  to build momentum in enhanc ing global ambition;  
25. Expresses its appreciation to the Parties and non -Party stakeholders that announced 
voluntary initiatives and coalitions at the Summit referred to in paragraph 24 above  as well 
as to those  that led and joined  such initiatives and coalitions;  
26. Acknowledges  the important role of non -Party  stakeholders in contributing to progress 
towards the objective of the Convention and the goals of the Paris Agreement, in particular 
by supporting Parties in reduc ing emissions and adapt ing to the adverse effects of climate 
change;  
27. Welcomes the continuation of the Marrakech Partnership for Global Climate Action  
and decides  to continue to appoint high-level champions , for 2021 –2025 ,5 and to continue 
                                                           
 3 See https://unfccc.int/topics/pre -2020 .  
 4 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx .  
 5 In accordance with decision 1/CP.21, para . 122(c).  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
4  convening annual ly a high-level event together with the Executive Secretary and the 
incumbent  and i ncoming Presidents of the Conference of the Parties;  
28. Requests  the high-level champions to explore  how to  improv e the work under  the 
Marrakech Partnership for Global Climate Action for enhancing ambition  taking into account 
feedback from Parties and non-Party stakeholders;  
29. Also r equests  the secretariat to continue engag ing with non -Party stakeholders and 
enhancing the effectiveness of the Non -State Actor Zone for Climate Action platform, 
including the tracking of voluntary action;  
30. Commends  the efforts of the  Presiden t of the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -
fifth session to highlight the importance of the ocean, including as an integral part of the 
Earth’s climate system , and of ensuring the integrity of ocean and coastal ecosystems  in the 
context of c limate change;  
31. Requests  the Chair of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice to 
convene at its fifty -second session (June 2020) a dialogue on the ocean and climate change 
to consider how to strengthen mitigation and adaptation action in  this context;  
32. Also r equests  the Chair of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological 
Advice to convene at its fifty-second session a dialogue on the relationship between land and 
climate change adaptation related matters, not intervening in other processes under the 
Convention , the Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement , including those carried out under 
the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice;  
33. Invites  Parties a nd non -Party stakeholders to submit inputs via the submission portal 
by 31 March 2020 to inform the dialogue s referred to in paragraph s 31–32 above;  
34. Requests  the Chair of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice to 
prepare informal summa ry report s on the dialogue s referred to in paragraph s 31–32 above;  
35. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in this decision;  
36. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called fo r in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
8th plenary meeting  
15 December 2019  
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
 5   Decision 2/CP.25  
  Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage 
associated with Climate Change Impacts and its 2019 review  
 The Conference of the Pa rties, 
 Recalling decision 4/CP.22, paragraph 2,  
1. Notes decision 2/CMA.2 , on the outcome of the review of the Warsaw International 
Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts and the report of 
its Executive Committee ; 
2. Also notes that considerations related to the governance of the Warsaw International 
Mechanism will continue at its twenty -sixth  session (November 2020).1 
8th plenary meeting  
15 December 2019
                                                           
 1 It is noted that discussions related to the governance of the Warsaw International Mechanism  did not 
produce an outcome; this is without prejudice to further consideration of this matter . FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
6    Decision 3/CP.25  
  Enhanced Lima work programme on gender and its gender 
action plan  
 The Conference of the Parties , 
 Recalling decisions  36/CP.7, 1/CP.16, 23/CP.18, 18/CP.20, 1/CP.21, 21/CP.22 and 
3/CP.23, the Paris Agreement and the Katowice climate package,  
 Acknowledging the continuing need for gender mainstreaming t hrough all relevant 
targets and goals in activities under the Convention as an important contribution to increasing 
their effectiveness, fairness and sustainability,  
 Also acknowledging  the important role of the Lima work programme on gender and 
its gender  action plan in advancing gender equality and women’s empowerment in the 
UNFCCC process, demonstrated by the review by the Subsidiary Body for Implementation,  
 Noting  with appreciation  the contributions received from Parties and observers in 
support of the  gender mainstreaming work undertaken to date,  
 Recognizing with concern that climate change impacts on women and men can often 
differ owing to historical and current gender inequalities and multidimensional factors and 
can be more pronounced in developing  countries and for local communities and indigenous 
peoples,  
 Acknowledging that climate change is a common concern of humankind, Parties 
should, when taking action to address climate change, respect, promote and consider their 
respective obligations on hu man rights, the right to health, the rights of indigenous peoples, 
local communities, migrants, children, persons with disabilities and people in vulnerable 
situations and the right to development, as well as gender equality, empowerment of women 
and inter generational equity,  
 Taking into account  the imperatives of a just transition of the workforce and the 
creation of decent work and quality jobs in accordance with nationally defined development 
priorities,  
1. Welcomes  the report on the implementation of the Lima work programme on gender 
and its gender action plan,1 and recognizes  the action taken by Parties, UNFCCC constituted 
bodies, the secretariat and observers to implement them;  
2. Takes note  of the report on the gen der composition of Party delegations and 
constituted bodies,2 which highlights the persistent lack of progress in and the urgent need 
for improving the representation of women in Party delegations and constituted bodies;  
3. Also takes note  of the report on progress in integrating a gender perspective into 
constituted body processes,3 which indicates that an increasing number of constituted bodies 
are reporting on gender, and encourages  constituted bodies to continue strengthening their 
efforts in this area;  
4. Encourages Parties to enhance their efforts to advance the implementation of the 
decisions referred to in the preamble;  
5.  Adopts the enhanced five -year Lima work programme on gender and its gender action 
plan as contained in the anne x; 
6. Acknowledges that capacity -building, knowledge management and the sharing of 
experience are essential to supporting relevant actors in designing and implementing gender -
                                                           
 1 FCCC/SBI/2019/15  and Add.1.  
 2 FCCC/CP/2019/9.  
 3 FCCC/CP/2019/8.  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
 7 responsive climate action and for increasing the effectiveness and scaling up of the se 
measures;  
7. Recognizes  that the full, meaningful and equal participation and leadership of women 
in all aspects of the UNFCCC process and in national - and local -level climate policy and 
action is vital for achieving long -term climate goals;  
8. Acknowledges  that coherence with relevant United Nations processes, in particular the 
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, as applicable, and within national 
implementation will contribute to improving the efficiency and effectiveness of efforts to 
integrate gender considerations into climate action;  
9. Notes that gender -responsive implementation and means of implementation of climate 
policy and action can enable Parties to raise ambition, as well as enhance gender equality, 
and just transition of the workforce and the creation of decent work and quality jobs in 
accordance with nationally defined development priorities;  
10. Decides to undertake a review of the implementation of the enhanced Lima work 
programme on gender and its gender action plan at the sixty -first session of the Subsidiary 
Body for Implementation ( November 2024), identifying progress and further work to be 
undertaken, and to conduct an intermediate review of the progress of implementation of the 
activities contained in the gender action plan at the fifty -sixth session of the Subsidiary Body 
for Implementation (June 2022);  
11. Encourages Parties  to appoint and provide support for a national gender and climate 
change focal point for climate negotiations, implementation and monitoring;  
12. Requests  all constituted bodi es to continue to include in their regular reports 
information on progress towards integrating a gender perspective into their processes;  
13. Invites  Parties to submit information on efforts and steps taken to implement the 
enhanced Lima work programme on gend er and its gender action plan in their national 
reporting under the UNFCCC process, as applicable;  
14. Also invites relevant public and private entities to increase the gender -responsiveness 
of climate finance with a view to strengthening the capacity of women ; 
15. Requests the secretariat to continue to:  
(a) Maintain the position of senior gender focal point to retain relevant expertise 
and support and monitor the implementation of the enhanced Lima work programme on 
gender and its gender action plan;  
(b) Prepare an annua l gender composition report and a biennial synthesis report 
on progress in integrating a gender perspective into constituted body processes;  
(c) Provide capacity -building support to constituted bodies and secretariat staff in 
integrating a gender perspective i nto their respective areas of work in collaboration with 
relevant organizations, as appropriate;  
(d) Facilitate coordination with other United Nations entities, intergovernmental 
organizations and non -governmental organizations when supporting the implementati on of 
the enhanced Lima work programme on gender and its gender action plan;  
(e) Facilitate support for building and strengthening the skills and capacities of 
national gender and climate change focal points;  
(f) Enhance communication and information -sharing throu gh existing UNFCCC 
web-based resources and communication activities;  
(g) Participate in the United Nations System -Wide Action Plan on Gender 
Equality and the Empowerment of Women to strengthen the integration of gender 
considerations within the organization an d work of the secretariat;  
16. Invites  Parties to provide support for developing country Parties to address gender -
related action under  the Convention and the Paris Agreement, including in relation to the 
UNFCCC gender action plan ; FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
8  17. Encourages  Parties and relevant organizations to participate and engage in the 
implementation of the gender -related activities within the gender action plan, as appropriate;  
18. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the  secretariat referred to in paragraph 1 5 above and activities A.1 –5, B.1 –3, C.1 –3, D.1 –
3 and 6, and E.1 –2 in the annex;  
19. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
 9 Annex  
  Gender action  plan 
1. The enhanced gender action plan sets out objectives and activities under five priority 
areas that  aim to advance knowledge and understanding of gender -responsive climate action 
and its coherent mainstreaming in the implementation of the UNFCCC and the work of 
Parties, the secretariat, United Nations entities and all stakeholders at all levels, as well  as 
women’s full, equal and meaningful participation in the UNFCCC process.  
  Priority areas  
2. Parties, the secretariat, UNFCCC constituted bodies and relevant organizations are 
invited to undertake the activities set out in the gender action plan, as approp riate.  
3. The gender action plan sets out, in five priority areas, the activities that will drive the 
achievement of its objectives  (see tables 1 –5).1 The objectives of each priority area follow in 
paragraphs 4–8 below.  
A. Capacity -building, knowledge management  and communication  
4. To enhance the systematic integration of gender considerations into climate policy 
and action and the application of understanding and expertise to the actions called for under 
the Lima work programme on gender and its gender action plan , and facilitate outreach, 
knowledge -sharing and the communication of activities undertaken to enhance gender -
responsive climate action and its impacts in advancing women’s leadership, achieving gender 
equality and ensuring effective climate action.  
B. Gender  balance, participation and women’s leadership  
5. To achieve and sustain the full, equal and meaningful participation of women in the 
UNFCCC process.  
C. Coherence  
6. To strengthen the integration of gender considerations within the work of UNFCCC 
constituted bodies , the secretariat and other United Nation s entities and stakeholders towards 
the consistent implementation of gender -related mandates and activities.  
D. Gender -responsive implementation and means of implementation  
7. To ensure the respect, promotion and conside ration of gender equality and the 
empowerment of women in the implementation of the Convention and the Paris Agreement.  
E. Monitoring and reporting  
8. To improve tracking of the implementation of and reporting on gender -related 
mandates under the Lima work progr amme on gender and its gender action plan.  
                                                           
 1 Abbreviations used in the tables: COP = Conference of the Parties, SB = sessions of th e subsidiary 
bodies, SBI = Subsidiary Body for Implementation, SBSTA = Subsidiary Body for Scientific and 
Technological Advice.   
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
10  
 
Table 1  
Priority area A: capacity -building, knowledge management and communication  
Activities  Responsibilities  Timeline  Deliverables/outputs  Level of 
implementation  
A.1 Strengthen capacity -building efforts for 
governments and other stakeholders in 
mainstreaming gender in formulating, monitoring, 
implementing and reviewing, as appropriate, national 
climate change policies, plans, strategies and action, 
including nationally  determined contributions, 
national adaptation plans and national 
communications  Leading: Parties, relevant organizations  
Contributing: national gender and climate change 
focal points, secretariat  Ongoing 
to COP 30  
(2024)  
 
 
 Implementation of capacity -
building for developing 
gender -responsive climate 
change policy  
 
 Regional, 
national  
 
 
A.2 Discuss and clarify the role and the work of the 
national gender and climate change focal points, 
including through providing capacity -building, tools 
and resources, sharing experience and best practices, 
workshops, knowledge exchange, peer -to-peer 
learning, mentoring and coaching  Leading: secretariat  
Contributing: national gender and climate change 
focal points, relevant organiz ations, Parties  SB 52 
(2020)  In-session workshop  
Recommendations on the role 
of the national gender and 
climate change focal point  International  
Leading: relevant organizations  
Contributing: secretariat, national gender and 
climate change focal points  Ongoing 
to COP 30 
(2024)  Provision of capacity -building 
opportunities, tools and 
resources  
 Regional, 
national  
 
A.3 Enhance capacity -building for governments and 
other relevant stakeholders to collect, analyse and 
apply sex-disaggregated data and gender analysis in 
the context of climate change, where applicable  Leading: relevant organizations  
Contributing: Parties  Ongoing 
to COP 30 
(2024)  Promotion of tools, guidelines 
and training  Regional, 
national, local  
A.4 Strengthen the evidence base and understanding 
of the differentiated impacts of climate change on 
men and women and the role of women as agents of 
change and on opportunities for women  
 Parties, relevant  organi zations , the research 
community  SB 54 
(2021) Submissions on:   
- Dimensions and examples 
of the gender -
differentiated  impacts of 
climate change   
- The role of women as agents 
of change   
- Opportunities for women  International, 
regional, 
national   
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
 11 
 
Activities  Responsibilities  Timeline  Deliverables/outputs  Level of 
implementation  
Secretariat  By SB 56  
(2022)  Synthesis report o n the 
submissions   International  
Invite Parties, relevant organizations, the research 
community and the Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change to participate in an event to 
present relevant information upon publication of 
the Sixth Assessment Report of the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Cl imate Change  By COP 
28 (2022)  SBI–SBSTA special event  International, 
regional, 
national  
A.5 Promote the use of social media, web resources 
and innovative communication tools to effectively 
communicate to the public, in particular reaching out 
to women, on the implementation of the Lima work 
programme on gender and its gender action plan and 
on gender equality  Leading: Parties, relevant organizations, 
secretariat  
 Ongoing 
to COP 30 
(2024)  Effective communication 
through social media, web 
resources and innovative 
communication tools  International, 
regional, 
national  
 
Table 2  
Priority area B: gender balance, participation and women’s leadership  
Activities  Responsibilities  Timeline  Deliverables/outputs  Level of implementation  
B.1 Promote initiatives for capacity -building in 
leadership, negotiation and facilitation of negotiation 
for women delegates, including through webinars and 
in-session training to enhance women’s participation 
in the UNFCCC process  Leading: Parties, relevant o rganizations  
Contributing: secretariat  
 Ongoing 
to COP 30 
(2024)  
 Workshops, capacity -building 
initiatives, webinars  
 
 International, 
regional, national  
 
B.2 Promote travel funds as a means of supporting the 
equal participation of women in all national 
delegations at UNFCCC sessions, as well as funds to 
support the participation of grass -roots local and 
indigenous peoples’ communities from developing 
countries, the least developed countries and small 
island developing States , and encourage Parti es and 
relevant organizations to share information on travel 
funding  Leading: Parties  
Contributing: relevant organizations, secretariat  Ongoing to 
COP 30 
(2024)  
 Mobilization of travel funds 
to increase women’s 
participation in the UNFCCC 
process  
 
 International, 
regional, national   
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
12  
 
Activities  Responsibilities  Timeline  Deliverables/outputs  Level of implementation  
B.3 Invite the Local Communities and Indigenous 
Peoples Platform Facilitative Working Group to 
collaborate and co -host a dialogue to discuss 
advancing the leadership and highlighting the solutions 
of local communities an d indigenous women and ways 
of enhancing their effective participation in climate 
policy and action, to the extent that it is consistent with 
the workplan of the Local Communities and 
Indigenous Peoples Platform Facilitative Working 
Group and within existi ng resources  Invite to collaborate: Local Communities and 
Indigenous Peoples Platform Facilitative Working 
Group, secretariat  
Contributing: Parties, relevant organizations  SB 57 
(2022)  
 
 Dialogue  
 
 
 International, 
regional  
 Secretariat  SB 58 
(2023)  Dialogue report  International  
 
Table 3  
Priority area C: coherence  
Activities  Responsibilities  Timeline  Deliverables/outputs  Level of implementation  
C.1 Ensure that members of constituted bodies are 
introduced to gender -related mandates and to the 
relevance of gender in the context of their work in a 
consistent and systematic manner  Leading: secretariat  
 
Contributing: relevant organizations  
 Ongoing 
to COP 30 
(2024)  All new members of 
constituted bodies are 
introduced to the importance 
of gender -responsiveness  
 International  
C.2 Facilitate the exchange of views and best practices 
of the Chairs of constituted bodies on how to 
strengthen the integration of the gender perspective 
into their work, taking into account the synthesis 
reports on progress in integrating a gender perspe ctive 
into constituted body processes referred to in 
paragraph 1 5(b) of this decision  
 Leading: Chairs of constituted bodies  
Contributing: secretariat  SB 56 
(2022)  
 
 Selection of topics for 
dialogue  
 
 International  
Leading: secretariat  
Contributing: relevant organizations  SB 56 
(2022)  Compilation of good 
practices for integrating 
gender into the work of the 
constituted bodies  International  
Leading: Chairs of constituted bodies  SB 58 
(2023)  Dialogue  International   
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
 13 
 
Activities  Responsibilities  Timeline  Deliverables/outputs  Level of implementation  
Contributing: secretariat   
Secretariat  SB 59 
(2023)  Dialogue report  International  
C.3 Strengthen coordination between the work on 
gender considerations of the subsidiary bodies under 
the Convention and the Paris Agreement and other 
relevant United Nations entities and processes, in 
particular the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development,  as applicable  
 Leading: secretariat  
Contributing: Parties, constituted bodies, relevant 
organizations  COP  
sessions  
from 
COP  26 
(2020)  In-session dialogue on 
Gender Day focused on one 
thematic area relevant to the 
Convention and the Paris 
Agreement to promote 
coherence reflecting 
multidimensional factors  International  
 
Table 4  
Priority area D: gender -responsive implementation and means of implementation  
Activities  Responsibilities  Timeline  Deliverables/outputs  Level of implementation  
D.1 Share experience and support capacity -building 
on gender budgeting, including on the integration of 
gender -responsive budgeting into national budgets to 
advance gender -responsive climate policies, plans, 
strategies and action, as appropriate  Parties, secretariat, relevant organizations  
 31 July 
2022  Submissions  International  
 
Leading: relevant organizations  
Contributing: Parties, national gender and 
climate change focal points, secretariat, relevant 
national finance and budgeting entities, any other 
relevant entity  
 2022  
  
 
 Expert group meeting  
 
 International, 
regional, national  
 
Leading: secretariat  
Contributing: relevant organizations  COP 28 
(2022)  
 Gender Day theme  International  
D.2 Raise awareness of the financial and technical 
support available for promoting the strengthening of 
gender integration into climate policies, plans, 
strategies and action, as appropriate, including good 
practices to facilitate access to climate finance for 
grass -roots women’s organizations and indigenous 
peoples and local communities  Leading: secretariat, Parties  
 
Contributing: Adaptation Fund, Global 
Environment Facility, Green Climate Fund, 
private sector, philanthropic financial 
institutions, other relevant organizations  Ongoing 
to COP 30 
(2024)  Webinars, communication 
materials, in -session 
workshops  Internationa l, 
regional, national   
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
14  
 
Activities  Responsibilities  Timeline  Deliverables/outputs  Level of implementation  
D.3 Promote the deployment of gender -responsive 
technological solutions to address climate change, 
including strengthening, protecting and preserving 
local, indigenous and traditional knowledge and 
practices in different sectors and for improving climate 
resilience, and by fostering women’s and girls’ full 
participation and leadership in science, technology, 
research and development  Leading: Parties, relevant organizations, 
constituted bodies  
Contributing: secretariat  Ongo ing 
to COP 30 
(2024)  Workshops, capacity -
building initiatives, 
webinars  International, 
regional, national  
D.4 Support the collection and consolidation of 
information and expertise on gender and climate 
change in sectors and thematic areas as well as 
identifying experts on gender and climate change, as 
needed, and enhance knowledge platforms on gender 
and climate change  Leading: Parties, relevant organizations  
Contributing: secretariat  Ongoing 
to COP 30 
(2024)  Knowledge and expertise 
platforms on gender and 
climate change  International, 
regional, national  
D.5 Engage women’s groups and national women and 
gender institutions in the process of developing, 
implementing and updating climate policies, plans, 
strategies and action, as appropriate, at all  levels  Parties, relevant organizations  Ongoing 
to COP 30 
(2024)  Engagement of women’s 
groups and national 
women and gender 
institutions in developing 
and implementing climate 
policies, plans, strategies 
and action, as appropriate  National  
Parties, relevant organizations  Ongoing 
to COP 30 
(2024)  Peer-to-peer exchange on 
country experience and 
needs  Regional  
Parties, relevant organizations  Ongoing 
to COP 30 
(2024)  
 Open call for submissions 
to share experience  International, 
national  
D.6 Exchange information on lessons learned among 
Parties that have integrated gender into national 
climate policies, plans, strategies and action, as 
appropriate (e.g. information on results, impacts and 
main challenges), and on the actions that  Parties are Parties, relevant organizations  31 March 
2020  Submissions on lessons 
learned  International, 
national  
Leading: secretariat  SB 52 
(2020)  In-session workshop on 
lessons learned and actions 
taken in any updates  International   
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
 15 
 
Activities  Responsibilities  Timeline  Deliverables/outputs  Level of implementation  
taking to mainstream gender in any updates thereto, as 
appropriate  
 Contributing: national gender and climate change 
focal points, relevant organizations   
Secretariat  SB 53 
(2020)  Informal workshop report  International  
Leading: relevant organizations  
Contributing: secretariat, national gender and 
climate change focal points  Ongoing 
to COP 30 
(2024)  Workshops, dialogues, 
training expert meetings  
 Regional, national  
 
D.7 Enhance the availability of sex -disaggregated data 
for gender analysis, taking into consideration 
multidimensional factors, to better inform gender -
responsive climate policies, plans, strategies and 
action, as appropriate  Leading: relevant organizations, Parties  Ongoing 
to COP 30 
(2024)  Management and 
availability of sex -
disaggregated data for 
gender analysis in national 
systems, as appropriate  National  
 
Table 5  
Priority area E: monitoring and reporting  
Activities  Responsibilities  Timeline  Deliverables/outputs  Level of implementation  
E.1 Strengthen the monitoring and reporting on 
women in leadership positions within the UNFCCC 
process in the context of the gender composition report 
referred to in  paragraph 1 5(b) of this decision and 
including through case studies  Secretariat  Ongoing 
to COP 30 
(2024)  Inclusion of additional 
information in gender 
composition report  International  
E.2 Monitor and report on the implementation of 
gender -responsive clim ate policies, plans, strategies 
and action, as appropriate, reported by Parties in 
regular reports and communications under the 
UNFCCC process  Secretariat  COP 28 
(2022)  
COP 30 
(2024)  Compilation and synthesis 
report  International  
 
8th plenary meeting  
15 December 2019FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
16    Decision 4/CP.25  
  Workplan of the forum on the impact of the implementation 
of response measures and its Katowice Committee of Experts 
on the Impacts of the Implementation of Response Measures  
 The Conference of the Parties , the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol , and  the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement ,  
 Recalling  decisions 7/CP.24 , 3/CMP.14 and 7/CMA.1,  
1. Welcome  the annual report of the Katowice Committee of Experts on the Impacts of 
the Implementation of Response Measures1 and its progress in supporting the work of the 
forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures;  
2. Adopt  the rules of procedure o f the Katowice Committee on Impacts  as contained in 
annex I;  
3. Adopt the workplan of the forum on the impact of the implementation of response 
measures and its Katowice Committee on Impacts  as contained in annex II;  
4. Decide that the forum on the impact of the  implementation of response measures, in 
the context of the implementation of the workplan, may consider, as needed, additional 
modalities for the workplan activities, consistent with the modalities identified in decision 
7/CMA.1, and recommend such additi onal modalities for the workplan for consideration and 
adoption by the subsidiary bodies ; 
5. Recall  paragraph 12 of decision 7/CMA.1, which provides that the forum on the 
impact of the implementation of response measures shall provide recommendations for 
consideration by the subsidiary bodies with a view to the subsidiary bodies recommending 
actions to the Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of the Parties servi ng as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  for consideration and adoption;  
6. Request the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures to 
continue considering the first annual report  of the Katowice Committee on Impacts,  includi ng 
the recommendations and considerations contained therein , at the fifty -sixth session s of the 
subsidiary bodies (June 202 2) with a view to providing recommendations for consideration 
and adoption by the C onference of the Parties , the Conference of the Pa rties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the  Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement  at their next session s;  
7. Also r equest  the secretariat to support the implementation of the work plan of the 
forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures and its Katowice 
Committee on Impacts  referred to in paragraph 3 above;  
8. Take  note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat refer red to in paragraph 3 above;  
9. Request  that the actions of the secretariat called for in th is decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
                                                           
 1 Available at https://unfccc.int/documents/202723 . FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
 17 Annex  I 
  Rules of procedure of the Katowice Committee of Experts on 
the Impacts of the Implementation of Response Measures  
I. Scope  
1. These rules of procedure shall apply to the Katowice Committee of Experts on the 
Impacts of the Implementation of Response Measures (K CI) in accordance with decision 
7/CMA.1  and its annex.  
II. Mandate  
2. The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement  (CMA ), by decision 7/CMA.1 , decided to establish the KCI to support the work 
of the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures in implementing its 
work programme and operating in accordance with the terms of reference  contained in the 
annex to that decision.   
3. The forum and the KCI may use the following modalities, as appropriate an d as 
decided on a case -by-case basis,  to carry out the work programme of the forum:  
(a) Building awareness and enhancing information -sharing through the exchange 
and sharing of experience and best practices;  
(b) Preparing technical papers, case studies, specific e xamples and guidelines;  
(c) Receiving inputs from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations;  
(d) Organizing workshops.  
III. Members  
4. The CMA, by decision 7/CMA.1, decided that the KCI shall be composed of 14 
members, of which:  
(a) Two members from each of the five U nited Nations regional groups;  
(b) One member from the least developed countries;  
(c) One member from the small island developing States;  
(d) Two members from relevant intergovernmental organizations.1  
5. By the same decision, the CMA also decided that members shall be nominated by 
their respective groups.  Groups are encouraged to nominate members taking into account the 
goal of achieving gender balance. The Chairs of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and 
Technological Advice (SBSTA) and the Subsidiary Body for Implemen tation  (SBI) shall be 
notified of these appointments.2  
6.  The CMA also decided that members shall serve in their expert capacity and should 
have relevant qualifications and expertise in the technical and socioeconomic fields related 
to the areas of the work  programme of the forum.3 
7. Further, the CMA decided that members shall serve a term of two years and be eligible 
to serve a maximum of two consecutive terms in office.4 
                                                           
 1 Decision 7/CMA.1, an nex, para. 4(b).  
 2 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4( d).  
 3 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(c).  
 4 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(e).  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
18  8. The term of office of a member shall commence  at the first meeting of the KCI in the 
calendar year  of their appointment and end immediately before the first meeting of the KCI 
in the calendar year after their second calendar year  in office.  
9. If a member of the KCI resigns or is otherwise unable to complete the assigned term 
of office or to per form the functions of that office, the KCI shall request the group that 
nominated the member to nominate another member for the remainder of the unexpired term, 
in which case the appointment shall count as one term. In such a case, the KCI shall notify 
the Chairs of the SBSTA and the SBI.  
10. If a member is unable to participate in two consecutive meetings of the KCI or unable 
to perform the functions and tasks set by the KCI, the Co-Chairs of the KCI will bring this 
matter to the attention of the KCI and seek clarification from the group that nominated that 
member on the status of their membership.  
IV. Co-Chairs  
11. The CMA decided that t he KCI shall elect, on a consensus basis, two members from 
amon g its members to serve as Co -Chairs for a term of two years each,  taking into account 
the need to ensure equitable geographical representation.5 
12. The CMA also decided that if one of the Co -Chairs is temporarily unable to fulfil the 
obligations of the office, another member designated by the KCI shall serve as Co -Chair.6 
13. If one of the Co -Chairs is unable to complete the term of office, the KCI shall elect a 
replacement from among its members of the relevant group of the incumbent Co -Chair, if 
available, to complete that term of office.  
14. The Co-Chairs shall collaborate in chairing meetings of the KCI and in  facilitating the 
work of the KCI throughout the year , in accordance with the workplan of the forum and its 
KCI, to ensure coherence between meetings.  
15. Following the completion of the Co -Chairs’ two -year ter m of office, the KCI shall 
nominate two  members as Co-Chairs to serve the next two -year term of office.  
16. The C o-Chairs shall  declare the opening and closing of meeting s of the KCI , ensure 
the observance of these rules of procedure and rule on points of orde r. 
17. The Co-Chairs shall call upon speakers at meetings of the KCI in the order in which 
they signify their desire to speak. The secretariat shall maintain a list of speakers. The Co-
Chairs may call a speaker to order if their remarks are not relevant to the  subject under 
discussion.  
18. The KCI may further define additional roles and responsibilities for the Co-Chairs.  
19. In exercising their functions, t he Co-Chairs  shall remain under the authority of the 
KCI.  
V. Secretariat  
20. The secretariat shall support and facilitate the work of the KCI , by:  
(a) Making the necessary arrangements for the meetings of the KCI, including 
announcing meetings, issuing invitations, making the necessary travel arrangements for 
members eligible for funding for their participation in mee tings and making available 
relevant documents for meetings;  
(b) Maintain ing meeting records and arrang ing for the storage and preservation of 
documents of meetings  of the KCI ; 
                                                           
 5 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(f).  
 6 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para . 4(g).  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
 19 (c) Making documents of meetings of the KCI available to the public, unless 
otherwise de cided by the KCI.  
21. The secretariat shall  assist the KCI in tracking its actions, in accordance with the 
workplan of the forum and its KCI, in its annual report . 
22. In addition, the secretariat shall perform any other functions assigned  by the KCI, in 
accordanc e with the workplan of the forum and its KCI.   
VI. Meetings  
23. The KCI shall meet twice per year, for two days per meeting, in conjunction with the 
sessions of the subsidiary bod ies. 
24. At least nine members of the KCI must be present to constitute a quorum.  
25. Members  are requested to confirm their attendance at meetings of the KCI as early  as 
possible , and at least four weeks prior to a meeting for members eligible for funding for  their 
participation , to enable sufficient time for the secretariat to make the necessary travel  
arrangements.  
26. Should technical and financial resources permit, open meetings of the KCI shall be 
webcast through the UNFCCC website.  
27. At each of its meetings, the KCI shall propose the dates of its next meeting. The Co -
Chairs will agree the dates of the next meeting in consultation with the secretariat.  
VII. Agenda and documentation for meetings  
28. The Co-Chairs, assisted by the secretariat, shall prepare the provisional  agenda and 
provision al annotated  agenda for each meeting  of the KCI in accordance with the workplan 
of the forum and its KCI . The Co -Chairs will prepare a report on the meeting, to be agreed 
by members, and this will be made available on the UNFCCC website. The Co -Chairs will  
report back to the forum on the meeting of the KCI.  
29. The provisional agenda and provisional annotated agenda for each meeting shall be 
transmitted to the members of the KCI at least four weeks in advance of the meeting.  
30. Members may propose additions or c hanges to the provisional agenda and provisional 
annotated agenda, in writing, to the secretariat within one week of receiving the documents, 
and these additions or changes shall be considered for a revised provisional agenda and 
provisional annotated agen da by the secretariat in agreement with the Co -Chairs.  
31. The secretariat shall transmit the provisional agenda and provisional annotated agenda 
and any supporting documentation to the members at least two weeks prior to  a meeting. 
Documents may be transmitt ed after that date with the approval of the Co-Chairs.  
32. Documents for a meeting shall be published on the UNFCCC website at least two  
weeks prior to that meeting , to the extent possible.   
33. The KCI shall, at the beginning of each meeting, adopt the agenda  for that meeting.  
34. The CMA decided that members of the KCI shall prepare an annual report for 
consideration by the forum with a view to making recommendations for consideration by the 
SBSTA and the SBI, which, in turn, are to recommend actions to the Conferen ce of the 
Parties (COP), the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol (CMP)  and the CMA  for their consideration and adoption.7  
35. This annual report shall be made available on the UNFCCC website  before  the 
relevan t sessions  of the  COP, the CMP  and the CMA . 
                                                           
 7 Decision 7/CMA.1, para. 12, and annex, para. 4(j).  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
20  VIII.  Decision -making  
36. The CMA decided  that the KCI shall operate on the basis of consensus of its 
members.8 
37. The KCI may use electronic means to facilitate its work, as appropriate and in 
accordance with the workplan of the forum and its KCI.  
IX. Working language  
38. The working language of the KCI shall be English.  
X. Participation of expert advisers in meetings  
39. The KCI, i n performing its mandate, should draw upon outside expertise at its 
meetings.  
40. The Co-Chairs may, in consultation with the KCI, invite representatives of 
international organizations , the private sector , academia  and/or civil society to participate in 
a meet ing of the KCI as expert advisers on specific issues under consideration at the meeting.  
XI. Participation of observers  
41. The CMA decided  that meetings of the KCI shall be open to attendance as observers 
by all Parties and accredited observer organizations, unle ss otherwise decided by the KCI.9  
42. The KCI may decide to close  a meeting or part thereof to observers  at any time . 
43. The secretariat shall make the dates and venues of the meetings available  to the public 
to enable participation by observers.  
44. Observers  may, with the agreement of the KCI, be invited to address the KCI on 
matters under consideration by the KCI. The Co-Chairs shall notify the KCI one week in 
advance of the meeting of any proposed interventions by observers.  
45. The KCI may request intervention s from observers throughout the meeting, as 
appropriate.  
XII. Use of electronic means of communication  
46. The KCI shall  use electronic means of communication to facilitate intersessional 
work , as appropriate and in accordance with the workplan of the forum and its KCI . The 
secretariat shall ensure that a secure and dedicated web interface is e stablished and 
maintained to facilitate the work of the KCI.  
XIII.  Working groups  
47. The KCI may establish work ing groups among its members to support the forum in 
performing its functions. The working groups may receive inputs from experts, practitioners 
and relevant organizations in accordance with the workplan of the forum and its KCI and  in 
line with paragraphs  39–40 above.  
                                                           
 8 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(i).  
 9 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(h).   FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
 21 XIV. Workplan  
48. The KCI will support the work of the forum in line with the workplan of the forum 
and its KCI.  
XV. Amendments to the rules of procedure  
49. The KCI may recommend amendments to these rules of procedure for consideration 
by the forum and appro val by the subsidiary bodies.  
50. Proposals and amendments to proposals for the rules of procedure may be introduced 
and submitted to the secretariat in writing by  KCI members; such proposals and amendments 
shall be circulated for consideration by all members of the KCI.  
51. No proposal for the rules of procedure shall be discussed or put forward for a decision 
at any meeting unless copies have been circulated to the KCI members no later than  two 
weeks before  the meeting.  
XVI. Overriding authority of the Convention, th e Kyoto Protocol 
and the Paris Agreement  
52. In the event of a conflict between any provision of these rules and any provis ion of 
the Convention, the Kyoto Protocol  or the Paris Agreement, the provision of the Convention, 
the Kyoto Protocol or the Paris Agreem ent shall take precedence.  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
22  Annex II 
  Workplan of the forum on the impact of the implementation 
of response measures and its Katowice Committee of Experts 
on the Impacts of the Implementation of Response Measures1 
The Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of 
the Parti es to the Kyoto Protocol, and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of 
the Parties to the Paris Agreement  recall:  
(a) Decision 7/CMA.1, paragraph 12, in which it was decided that the forum on 
the impact of the implementation of response measures  shall provide recommendations for 
consideration by the subsidiary bodies with a view to the subsidiary bodies recommending 
actions to the Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement for consideration and adoption ;  
(b) Decision 7/CMA.1 , annex , paragraph  4(j), in which  it was  decided that the 
members of the Katowice Committee of Experts on the Impacts of the Implementation of 
Response Measures  (KCI) shall prepare an annual report for consideration by the forum with 
a view to making recommendations to the Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Parti es to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement ; 
(c) Decision 7/CMA.1 , annex , paragraph  5, in which it was decided that the forum 
and its KCI may use the following modalities, as appropria te and as decided on a case -by-
case basis, in order to carry out the work programme of the forum:  
(i) Building awareness and enhancing information -sharing through the exchange 
and sharing of experience and best practices;  
(ii) Preparing technical papers, case studi es, concrete examples and guidelines;  
(iii) Receiving input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations;  
(iv) Organizing workshops ; 
(d) Decision 7/CMA.1 , paragraph  10, in which the subsidiary bodies were  
requested to conduct a midterm review of the work plan of the forum ; 
(e) Decision 7/CMA.1, paragraph 9, in which  it was decided that the forum shall 
develop and recommend a six -year workplan in line with the forum’s functions, work 
programme and modalities taking into account relevant policy issues of concern to Parties.  
 
                                                           
 1 See the table below .   
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
 23 
 
Work plan  of the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures and its Katowice Committee of Experts on the Impacts of the  Implementation 
of Response Measures  (for the fifty -second to sixty -third sessions of the subsidiary bodies ) 
Activity 
numbera Activity  Estimated timeline  for 
implementation  Responsible 
actor  Modalities/ outputs  
a Provide capacity -building to the C hairs and members of 
UNFCCC constituted bodies and technical teams of the 
secretariat on how to integrate gender considerations 
into their respective areas of work and on meeting the 
goal of gender balance  (decision 3/CP.23)  SB 52  (June 2020)  KCI Workshop  
b Consideration of the KCI annual report by the forum on 
the impact of the implementation of response measures  
(decision 7/CMA.1 , annex, para. 4(j) ) SB 53  (November 2020) , 
SB 55 (November 2021) , 
SB 57 (November 2022) , 
SB 59 (November 2023) , 
SB 61 (Novembe r 2024) 
and SB 63 (2025)  KCI Prepar e annual report  
Forum  Consider annual report  
c Midterm review of th is workplan , starting from SB 56  
(June 2022) ( decision 7/CMA.1, para . 10) SB 56  Forum  Conclusions/draft decisions  
d Prepare information for the technical assessment 
component of the global stocktake related to the impacts 
of the implementation of response measures ( decision 
19/CMA.1, paras . 8 and 24)  SB 56 and SB 57 Forum  Forward an outcome document for consideration in the 
technical assessment of the global stocktake  
e Review of the functions, work programme and 
modalities of the forum at SB  59 (decision 7/CMA.1, 
para. 6) SB 58 (June 2023) and 
SB 59 Forum  Prepare g uiding questions for the review  
Receive and consider the review  
1 Explore approaches to informing the development and 
implementation of climate change mitigation strategies, 
plans, policies and programmes, including nationally 
determined contributions and/or  long-term low 
greenhouse gas emission development strategies, that 
maximize the positive and minimize the negative 
impactsb of response measures  SB 52  KCI Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Forum  Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Awareness -building  and enhanc ing information -sharing 
through the exchange and sharing of experience and best 
practices  
2 Identify country -driven strategies and best practices on 
just transition of the work force  and creation of decent 
work and quality jobs and on economic diversification SB 54 (May –June 2021) 
and SB 58 KCI Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Concrete examples   
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
24 
 
Activity 
numbera Activity  Estimated timeline  for 
implementation  Responsible 
actor  Modalities/ outputs  
and transformation focusing on challenges and 
opportunities from the implementation of low 
greenhouse gas emission policies and strategies towards 
the achievement of sustainable development  SB 58  Forum  Awareness -building  and enhancing information -sharing 
through the exchange and sharing of experience and best 
practices  
In-session workshop  
3 Facilitate the development, enhancement, customization 
and use of tools and methodologies for modelling and 
assessing the impacts of the implementation of response 
measures , including identifying and reviewing existing 
tools and approaches in data -poor environments, in 
consultation with technical experts, practitioners and 
other relevant stakeholders  SB 53 and onward, as 
decided by the forum/KCI  KCI Input from experts, practi tioners and relevant organizations  
Technical paper  
Forum  Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Awareness -building  and enhancing information -sharing 
through the exchange and sharing of experience and best 
practices  
Organizing a regional workshop  
4 Enhance the capacity and understanding of Parties, 
through collaboration and input from stakeholders, on 
the assessment and analysis of the impacts of the 
implementation of response measures to facilitate the 
undertaking o f economic diversification and 
transformation and just transition  SB 52 and SB 63 KCI Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Technical paper  
Forum  Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Awareness -building  and enhancing information -sharing 
through the exchange and sharing of experience and best 
practices  
5 Build awareness and understanding of Parties and other 
stakeholders to assess the economic impacts of potential 
new industries and businesses resulting from the 
implementation of response measures with a view to 
maximizing the positive and minimizing the negative 
impacts of the implementation of response measures  SB 57  KCI Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Technical paper  
Forum  Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Awareness -building  and enhancing information -sharing 
through the exchange and sharing of experience and best 
practices  
6 Promote the availability and use of guidelines and 
policy frameworks to assist Parties in promoting just 
transition of the workforce and the creation of decent 
work and quality jobs within and across sectors, 
including trai ning, retooling, retraining and reskilling 
systems and stakeholder engagement strategies  SB 60  (June 2024)  KCI Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Forum  Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Exchange and sharing of experience and best practices   
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
 25 
 
Activity 
numbera Activity  Estimated timeline  for 
implementation  Responsible 
actor  Modalities/ outputs  
7 Facilitate the development and exchange of regional, 
country - and/or sector -specific case studies and 
approaches on ( 1) economic diversification and 
transformation and just transition of the workforce and 
creation of decent work and quality jobs, and ( 2) 
assessment and analysis of the impacts of the 
implementation of response measures with a view to 
understanding the positive and negative impacts  SB 59  and onward, as 
decided by the forum/KCI  KCI Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
KCI to examine existing case studies and identify an area 
where it may develop a case study, as appropriate.  
Forum  Exchange and sharing of experience and best practices  
8 Identify and exchange experiences and best practices in 
engaging the private sector, including small and 
medium -sized enterprises and public –private 
partnerships , to facilitate the creation of decent work 
and quality jobs in low greenhouse gas emission sec tors SB 59  KCI Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Technical paper  
Forum  Exchange and sharing of experience and best practices  
Concrete examples  
9 Identify and assess the impacts of the implementation of 
response measures taking into account intergenerational 
equity, gender considerations and the needs of local 
communities, indigenous peoples, youth and other 
people in vulnerable situations  SB 56  and SB 62 (2025)  KCI Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Technical paper  
Forum  Exchange and sharing of experience and best practices  
Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
In-session workshop  
10 Share experience and best practices in reporting  and 
informing on efforts to assess and analy se the impacts 
of the implementation of response measures  SB 61  KCI Exchange and sharing of experience and best practices  
Forum  Exchange and sharing of experience and best practices  
Concrete examples  
11 Facilitate, exchange and share experiences and best 
practices in the assessment of the environmental, social 
and economic co -benefits of climate change policies 
and actions informed by the best available science, 
including the use of existing tools and methodologies  SB 55  and SB 57  KCI Input from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations  
Forum  Exchange and sharing of experience and best practices  
a   Letters represent activities from previous decisions while numbers are new activities from this decision.  
b   “Impacts ” in this document refers to social, economic and environmental impacts.  
Abbreviations : KCI = Katowice Committee of Experts on the Impacts of the Implementation of Response Measures, SB = sessions of the subsidiary bodies.  
8th plenary meeting  
15 D ecember 201 9 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
26    Decision 5/CP.25  
  Scope of the second periodic review of the long -term global 
goal under the Convention and of overall progress towards 
achieving it  
The Conference of the Parties , 
 Recalling the ultimate objective of the Convention , contained in its Article 2,  
 Also r ecalling  decisions  1/CP.16, 2/CP.17, 1/CP.18, 10/CP.21 and 18/CP.23,  
 Further recalling  decisions 1/CP.24, section V, and 19/CMA.1,  
1. Recalls that pursuant to decision 1/CP.18, paragraph 79, the review should 
periodically assess, in accord ance with the relevant principles and provisions of the 
Convention, the following:  
(a) The adequacy of the long -term global goal in the light of the ultimate objective 
of the Convention;  
(b) Overall progress made towards achieving the long -term global goal, includ ing 
a consideration of the implementation of the commitments under the Convention;  
2. Agrees that the second periodic review of the long -term global goal1 under the 
Convention and of overall progress towards achieving it  will be conducted , in accordance 
with the scope as defined in paragraph 4 below,  with the assistance of the Subsidiary Body 
for Scientific and Technological  Advice and the Subsidiary Body f or Implementation , in an 
effective and efficient manner, avoiding duplication of work and taking into account the 
results of relevant work conducted under the Convention, the Kyoto Protocol, the Paris 
Agreement  and the subsidiary bodies;  
3. Notes that pursuan t to decision 2/CP.17, paragraph 161, there is new information  
relevant to the second periodic review since the completion of the 2013 –2015  review , and 
that additional information will be made available ;  
4. Decides  that the second periodic review should, in accordance with the relevant 
principles and provisions of the Convention  and on the basis of the best available science:  
(a) Enhance Parties’ understanding  of: 
(i) The long-term global goal and scenarios towards achieving it in the light of the 
ultimate objective of the Convention;  
(ii) Progress made in relation to addressing information and knowledge gaps, 
including  with regard to  scenarios to achieve the long -term global goal and the range 
of associated impacts, since the completion of the 2013 –2015 review;  
(iii) Challenges and opportunities for achieving the long -term global goal with a 
view to ensuring the effective implementation  of the Convention;  
(b) Assess the overall aggregated effect of the steps taken by Parties in order to 
achieve the long -term global goal in the light of the ultimate objective of the Convention;  
5. Agrees  that the outcome of the second periodic review will not resul t in an alteration 
or redefinition of the long -term global goal stated in decision 10/CP.21;  
6. Decides  that the second periodic review shall follow , mutatis mutandis,  the modalities 
set out in  paragraphs 80 –90 of decision 1/CP.18, including a structured expe rt dialogue ; 
7. Also decides  that the second periodic  review shall start in the second half of 2020 and 
conclude in 2022, with the structured expert dialogue held in conjunction with sessions of 
                                                           
 1 The long -term global  goal was originally defined in decision 1/CP.16, para. 4, and was updated  in 
decision 10/CP.21, para. 4.  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
 27 the subsidiary bodies, starting at their fifty -third sessions (N ovember 2020) and being 
completed at their fifty -fifth sessions (November 2021);  
8. Further d ecides  to consider the continuation of periodic reviews at its thirtieth session 
(November  2024) and take appropriate action, taking into account experience from the 2013 –
2015 review and the second periodic review, and the first global stocktake; potential overlaps 
and synergies between the periodic review, the global stocktake and other relevant processes 
under the Convention and the Paris Agreement; and the avail ability of new information 
relevant to the periodic review;  
9. Notes  that the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice and the 
Subsidiary Body for Implementation  have fulfilled the mandate contained in decisions 
10/CP.21, paragraph 10, and 18/C P.23, paragraph 2.  
8th plenary meeting  
15 December 2019  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
28    Decision 6/CP.25  
  Revision of the UNFCCC reporting guidelines on national 
communications for Parties included in Annex I to the 
Convention  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling the relevant provisions of the Convention, in particular Articles 4, 5, 6 and 
12, and decisions 9/CP.2, 11/CP.4, 4/CP.5, 1/CP.1 6, 2/CP.17, 19/CP.18, 24/CP.19 and 
9/CP.21 , related to reporting from Parties included in Annex I to the Convention , as well as  
decision 1/CP.24, paragraphs 39 –43, related to the transparency framework for action and 
support referred to in Article 13 of th e Paris Agreement,  
Also r ecalling its request to the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to revise the 
“Guidelines for the preparation of national communications by Parties included in Annex I 
to the Convention, Part II: UNFCCC reporting guidelines on national communications”1 
based on the  experience s gained in preparing the first biennial reports and other information,2  
1. Adopts the revised “ Guidelines for the preparation of national communications by 
Parties included in Annex I to the Convention, Part II: UNFCCC reporting guidelines on 
national communications ” contained in the annex ;  
2. Decides that Parties included in Annex I to the Convention shall use the guidelines 
referred to in paragraph 1 above in preparing their national co mmunications , beginning with 
the eighth national communications ; 
3. Also decides  to change  the due date for submission of the eighth national 
communication s and the fifth biennial report s by Parties included in Annex I to the 
Convention from 1 January 20223 to as early as the annual greenhouse gas  inventory  
submission for inventory year 2020 is provided to the UNFCCC , but no later than 31 
December 2022 , in order to provide Parties with the  opportunity to includ e the inventory  data 
in these reports;  
4. Further decides  that all references to decision 4/CP.5 in decision 1/CP.24 shall be 
read as  references to de cision 6/CP.25.  
  
                                                           
 1 Adopted in decision 4/CP.5  and contained in document FCCC/CP/1999/7.   
 2 Decision 2/CP.17, para . 18. 
 3 Decision 2/CP.17, para s. 13–14. FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
 29 Annex  
Guidelines for the preparation of national communications 
by Parties included in Annex I to the Convention, Part II: 
UNFCCC reporting guidelines on national communications  
I. Objectives  
1. The objectives of these guidelines are  to: 
(a) Assist Parties included in An nex I to the Convention (Annex I Parties) in 
meeting their commitments under Articles 4 and 12 of the Convention;  
(b) Promote the provision of consistent, transparent, comparable, accurate and 
complete information in order to enable a thorough review and asses sment of the 
implementation of the Convention by Parties, and to monitor the progress that Annex I Parties 
are making towards meeting their goals under the Convention;  
(c) Assist the Conference of the Parties (COP) in carrying out its responsibility to 
review the implementation of the Convention pursuant to its Article 7, paragraph 2(a), and 
the adequacy of the commitments  under Article 4, paragraph 2(a) and (b), in accordance with 
Article 4, paragraph 2(d), of the Convention.  
II. Executive  summary  
2. The national communication shall include an executive summary that summarizes the 
information and data contained in the full document. The executive summary shall consist of 
no more than 15 pages.  
III. National  circumstances  relevant  to greenhouse  gas emissions  
and  removals  
3. Parties shall provide a description of their national circumstances, how the national 
circumstances affect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and removals, and how the national 
circumstances and changes therein affect GHG emissions and removals o ver time. Parties 
should provide information on how their national circumstances are relevant to factors 
affecting GHG emissions and removals, including disaggregated indicators, to explain the 
relationship between the national circumstances and emissions or removals. Parties may 
provide whatever information best describes their own national circumstances and historical 
trends. However, in order to improve the comparability of national communications, 
reporting information under the following headings is re commended:  
(a) Government structure: for example, roles and responsibilities of different 
levels of government and relevant interministerial decision -making processes or bodies;  
(b) Population profile: for example, total population, density and distribution;  
(c) Econ omic profile: for example, gross domestic product (GDP), GDP per capita 
(expressed in domestic currency and purchasing power parity), GDP by sector and 
international trade patterns;  
(d) Geographical profile: for example, area, latitude, land use and ecosystems ; 
(e) Climate profile: for example, temperature distribution, annual temperature 
variation, precipitation distribution, climate variability and extreme events;  
(f) Energy (by fuel type, where appropriate): for example, energy resource base, 
production, market stru cture, prices, taxes, subsidies and trade;  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
30  (g) Transportation: for example, modes (passenger and freight), travel distances 
and fleet characteristics;  
(h) Industry: for example, structure;  
(i) Waste: for example, waste sources and management practices;  
(j) Building stock and urban structure: for example, profile of residential and 
commercial buildings;  
(k) Agriculture: for example, structure and management practices;  
(l) Forest: for example, types and management practices;  
(m) Other circumstances.  
Flexibility in accorda nce with Article 4 , paragraphs 6 and 10 , of the 
Convention  
4. Parties requesting flexibility or consideration in accordance with Article 4, paragraphs 
6 and 10, of the Convention  shall state the type of special consideration that they are seeking 
and provide a full explanation of their circumstances.  
IV. Greenhouse gas inventory information  
A. Summary tables  
5. Summary information from the national GHG inventory prepared in accordance with 
the “Guidelines for the preparation of national communications by Parties included in Annex 
I to the Convention, Part I: UNFCCC reporting guidelines on annual greenhouse gas 
inventories” (hereinafter referred to as the UNFCCC Annex I inventory reporting guidelines) 
(annex I to decision 24/CP.19 and any relevant decisions adopted subsequently by the COP) 
shall be provided for the period from 1990 (or another base year) to the lat est year reported 
in the most recent annual inventory submission available (the most recent inventory year). 
The information provided in the national communication should be consistent with that 
provided in the most recent annual inventory submission avail able (for the year prior to the 
due date of submission of the national communication) and any differences should be fully 
explained.  
6. For the purpose of the national communication, complete inventory information need 
not be provided. However, at a minimum,  Parties shall report the summary of GHG emissions 
and removals, including the information expressed in carbon dioxide (CO 2) equivalent in 
emission trend tables provided in the common reporting format contained in the UNFCCC 
Annex I inventory reporting gui delines. Parties may elect to replicate the information 
reported in the biennial report submitted with the national communication. The tables may 
be provided as an annex, as part of the national communication rather than in the main text.  
B. Descriptive summ ary 
7. In the main text of the national communication, Parties should provide a descriptive 
summary and figures illustrating the GHG emissions reported in the summary tables referred 
to in paragraph 6 above. Parties should provide a description of the factors  underlying 
emission trends.  
C. National  inventory arrangements  
8. Parties shall provide summary information on their national inventory arrangements 
in accordance with the reporting requirements related to national inventory arrangements 
contained in the UNFCC C Annex I inventory reporting guidelines and on any changes to FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
 31 those national inventory arrangements since their previous national communication or 
biennial report.  
V. Policies and measures  
A. Selection of policies and measures to be reported in the national 
communication  
9. In accordance with Article 12, paragraph 2, of the Convention, Parties shall 
communicate information on policies and measures adopted to implement their commitments 
under Article 4, paragraph 2(a) and (b), of the Convention, which ne ed not have the limitation 
or reduction of GHG emissions or the enhancement of removals as a primary objective.  
10. In their reporting, Parties should give priority to policies and measures, or 
combinations of policies and measures, that have the most signific ant impact on GHG 
emissions and removals, and they may also indicate those that are innovative and/or 
effectively replicable by other Parties. Parties may report on adopted policies and measures 
and those in the planning stage, but should clearly distingui sh them from implemented 
policies and measures. The national communication does not have to report every policy and 
measure that affects GHG emissions.  
11. Policies and measures reported on should be: those implemented (those for which one 
or more of the follo wing applies: (1) national legislation is in force; (2) one or more voluntary 
agreements have been established; (3) financial resources have been allocated; and (4) human 
resources have been mobilized); those adopted (those for which an official government  
decision has been made and there is a clear commitment to proceed with implementation); 
and/or those planned (options under discussion or announced and with a realistic chance of 
being adopted and implemented in the future) by governments at the national,  state, 
provincial, regional and local levels, as applicable. Furthermore, policies and measures 
reported may also include those adopted in the context of regional or international efforts . 
12. Parties should report on actions taken to implement their commitme nts under Article 
4, paragraph 2(e)(ii), of the Convention, which requires them to identify and periodically 
update their own policies and practices that encourage activities that lead to greater levels of 
anthropogenic GHG emissions than would otherwise o ccur. Parties should also provide the 
rationale for such actions in the context of their national communications.  
13. Parties are encouraged to provide, to the extent possible, detailed information on the 
assessment of the economic and social consequences of r esponse measures.  
B. Structure of the policies and measures section of the national 
communication  
14. Parties shall organize the reporting on policies and measures by sector, indicating 
which GHGs (CO 2, methane (CH 4), nitrous oxide (N 2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFC s), 
perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulphur hexafluoride (SF 6) and nitrogen trifluoride (NF 3)) are 
affected by which policies and measures. To the extent appropriate, the following sectors 
should be considered: energy, transport, industry/industrial processes and  product use, 
agriculture, forestry/land use, land -use change and forestry (LULUCF), waste 
management/waste, other sectors and cross -cutting. Each sector shall have its own textual 
description of the significant policies and measures, as set out in section  D below, 
supplemented by table 1 below. Parties may include separate text describing cross -sectoral 
policies and measures. Policies and measures influencing GHG emissions from international 
transport should be reported under the transport sector.  
15. In case s where a policy or measure has been maintained over time and is thoroughly 
described in a Party’s previous national communication and/or biennial report, reference 
should be made to it and only a brief description contained in the latest national 
communic ation, focusing on any alterations to the policy or measure or effects achieved.  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
32  16. Some information, such as the effect of policies and measures, may be presented in 
aggregate for several complementary measures in a particular sector or affecting a particula r 
gas. 
C. Policymaking process  
17. The national communication should describe the overall policy context, including any 
national targets for GHG mitigation. Strategies for sustainable development, long -term 
mitigation strategies or other relevant policy objective s may also be covered.  
18. The national communication should provide a description of the way in which 
progress with policies and measures to mitigate GHG emissions is monitored and evaluated 
over time. Institutional arrangements for the monitoring of GHG mit igation policy should 
also be reported in this context.  
D. Policies and measures and their effects  
19. The presentation of each policy or measure shall include information on each of the 
subject headings listed below. The presentation of each policy or measure s hould be concise 
and include the details suggested after each subject heading as follows:  
(a) Name of policy or measure ; 
(b) Sector(s) affected . To the extent possible, the following sectors should be used: 
energy, transport, industry/industrial processes  and product use, agriculture, 
forestry/LULUCF, waste management/waste, other sectors and cross -cutting, as appropriate;  
(c) The GHG(s) affected ; 
(d) Objective and/or activity affected . The description of the objectives should 
focus on the key purposes and benefits of the policy or measure, including a description of 
activities and/or source and sink categories affected. Objectives should be d escribed in 
quantitative terms, to the extent possible;  
(e) Type of instrument . To the extent possible, the following terms should be used: 
economic, fiscal, voluntary agreement, regulatory, information , education, research or other;  
(f) Status of implementation . It should be noted whether the policy or measure is 
no longer in place, in the planning stage, has been adopted  or is under implementation. For 
adopted and implemented measures, additional information may include the funds already 
provided, future budget allocated and the time frame for implementation;  
(g) Brief description of the policy or measure ; 
(h) Start year of implementation ; 
(i) Implementing entity or entities . This should describe the role of national, state, 
provincial, regional and local governments and th e involvement of any other entities;  
(j) Estimate of mitigation impact  (for a particular year, not cumulative, in 
kt CO 2 eq). 
20. In the description of each policy or measure or set of complementary measures 
reported, Parties shall include, as appropriate, a quan titative estimate of the impact of 
individual policies or measures or collections of policies and measures (if such estimation is 
not possible, Parties shall explain why), including estimated changes in activity levels and/or 
emissions and removals due to adopted and implemented policies and measures reported and 
a brief description of estimation methods. Estimates should be presented for a particular year, 
ending in either a zero or a five, following the most recent inventory year.  
21. Parties may also provid e information under the following headings for each policy or 
measure reported:  
(a) Information on costs of policy or measure . Such information should be 
accompanied by a brief definition of the term ‘cost’ in this context ; FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
 33 (b) Information on non -GHG mitigation be nefits . Such benefits may include, for 
example, reduced emissions of other pollutants, or health benefits ; 
(c) Information on how it interacts with other policies and measures at the 
national level . This may include a description of how policies complement eac h other in 
order to enhance overall GHG mitigation.  
22. In the light of the information provided in paragraph 34 below, Parties shall provide 
information on how they believe their policies and measures are modifying longer -term 
trends in anthropogenic GHG emi ssions and removals consistent with the objective of the 
Convention.  
E. Policies and measures no longer in place  
23. When policies and measures listed in previous national communications are no longer 
in place, Parties may explain why this is so .  
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
34  
 
Table 1  
Summary of policies and measures by sector  
Name of policy 
or measurea Sector(s) 
affectedb GHG(s) 
affected  Objective 
and/or 
activity 
affected  Type of 
instrumentc Status of 
implementationd Brief 
descriptione Start year of 
implementation  Implementing 
entity or 
entities  Estimate of mitigation 
impact (not cumulative, in 
kt CO 2 eq) 
20XXf 2020  
               
 
 
 
 
          
                        
Note : The two final columns specify the year identified by the Party for estimating impacts (based on the status of the measure a nd whether an ex post or ex ante 
estimation is available).  
Abbreviation : GHG = greenhouse gas.  
a   Parties should use an asterisk (*) to indicate that the policy or measure is included in the ‘with measures’ projection.  
b   To the extent possible, the following sectors should be used: energy, transport, industry/industrial processes  and product use, agriculture, forestry/land use, land -use 
change and forestry, waste management/waste, other sectors and cross -cutting, as appropriate . 
c   To the extent possible, the following types of instrument should be referred to: economic, fiscal, voluntary  agreement, regulatory, information, education, research and 
other.  
d   To the extent possible, the following descriptive terms should be used to report on the status of implementation: implemented, a dopted and planned.  
e   Additional information may be provided on the cost of the policy or measure and the relevant timescale.  
f   Option al year or yea rs deemed relevant by the Party.  
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
 35 VI. Projections and total effect of policies and measures  
A. Purpose  
24. The primary objective of the projections section of the national communication is to 
give an indication of future trends in GHG emissions and removals, given current national 
circumstances and implemented and adopted policies and measures,  and to give an indication 
of the path of emissions and removals without such policies and measures.  
B. Projections  
25. At a minimum, Parties shall report a ‘with measures’ projection, in accordance with 
paragraph 26 below, and may report ‘without measures’ and ‘ with additional measures’ 
projections.  
26. A ‘with measures’ projection shall encompass currently implemented and adopted 
policies and measures. If provided, a ‘with additional measures’ projection also encompasses 
planned policies and measures. If provided, a  ‘without measures’ projection excludes all 
policies and measures implemented, adopted or planned after the year chosen as the starting 
point for that projection. In their reporting, Parties may refer to their ‘without measures’ 
projection as a ‘baseline’ or ‘reference’ projection, for example, if preferred, but should 
explain the nature of that projection.  
27. Parties may report a sensitivity analysis for any of the projections, but should aim to 
limit the number of scenarios presented. Parties may provide th e results of a sensitivity 
analysis for the reported GHG emissions together with a brief explanation of the 
methodologies and parameters used.  
C. Presentation of projections relative to actual data  
28. Emission projections shall be presented relative to actual i nventory data for the 
preceding years.  
29. For the ‘with measures’ and ‘with additional measures’ projections, the starting point 
should generally be the most recent inventory year. Parties may provide a ‘without measures’ 
projection starting from an earlier y ear.  
30. Parties should present their projections relative to unadjusted inventory data for the 
preceding years presented in the most recent annual inventory submission available. In 
addition, Parties may present their projections relative to adjusted invento ry data. In that case, 
Parties shall explain the nature of the adjustments.  
D. Coverage and presentation  
31. Projections shall be presented on a sectoral basis. To the extent possible, the sectoral 
categories used should be the same as in the GHG inventories.  
32. Projections shall be presented on a gas -by-gas basis for the following GHGs: CO 2, 
CH 4, N 2O, PFCs, HFCs, SF 6 and NF 3 (treating PFCs and HFCs collectively in each case). 
Parties may also provide projections of indirect emissions of carbon monoxide, nitrogen 
oxide and non -methane volatile organic compounds, as well as sulphur oxide. In addition, 
projections shall be provided in an aggregated format for each sector as well as for a national 
total, using global warming potential values agreed upon by the COP.  
33. To ensure consistency with inventory reporting, emission projections related to fuel 
sold to ships and aircraft engaged in international transport shall, to the extent possible, be 
reported separately and not included in the national total.  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
36  34. In view of the ob jective of the Convention and the intent to modify longer -term trends 
in emissions and removals, Parties should include information on historical emissions and 
removals on a quantitative basis for the period from 1990 (or another base year, as 
appropriate)  to the most recent inventory year. The information should be presented for 1990 
(and another base year, as appropriate), 1995, 2000, 2005, 2010 and subsequent years that 
end in either a zero or a five up to the most recent inventory year. Parties should i nclude 
projections on a quantitative basis, starting from the most recent inventory year and for 
subsequent years that end in either a zero or a five, extending at least 15 years from the most 
recent inventory year (e.g. 2020, 2025, 2030 and 2035). Project ions and information on 
historical emissions and removals should be presented in tabular format. The tabular format 
used shall be as in tables 2, 3 and 4 below. For Parties using a base year other than 1990 for 
their GHG inventories, in accordance with Art icle 4, paragraph 6, of the Convention, 
inventory data for that year shall be given .  
  
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
 37 
 
Table 2  
Information on updated greenhouse gas projections under a ‘with measures’ scenarioa 
 GHG emissions and removalsb, c 
(kt CO 2 eq) GHG emission projectionsc, d  
(kt CO 2 eq) 
Base year  1990  1995  2000  2005  2010  … 20XXe  20YYf … … … 
Sectorg, h             
Energy               
Transport              
Industry/industrial processes  and 
product use              
Agriculture              
Forestry/LULUCF  
Waste management/waste              
Other (specify)              
Gas              
CO 2 emissions including net CO 2 
from LULUCF              
CO 2 emissions excluding net CO 2 
from LULUCF              
CH 4 emissions including CH 4 
from LULUCF              
CH 4 emissions excluding CH 4 
from LULUCF              
N2O emissions including N 2O 
from LULUCF              
N2O emissions excluding N 2O 
from LULUCF              
HFCs              
PFCs              
SF6             
Other (specify, e.g. NF 3)              
 Total with LULUCFi               
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
38  
 
 GHG emissions and removalsb, c 
(kt CO 2 eq) GHG emission projectionsc, d  
(kt CO 2 eq) 
Base year  1990  1995  2000  2005  2010  … 20XXe  20YYf … … … 
 Total without LULUCF             
Abbreviations : GHG = greenhouse gas, LULUCF = land use, land -use change and forestry.  
a   In accordance with  paragraph 25 of these guidelines, at a minimum Parties shall report a ‘with measures’ projection  and they may also report ‘without measures’ and 
‘with additional measures’ projection s. If a Party chooses to report a ‘without measures’ and/or ‘with additional measures’ projection,  it is to use table 3 and/or 4 below , 
respectively. If a Party does not choose to report a ‘without measures’ or ‘with additional measures’ projection,  then it should not include table 3 or 4 in its national 
communication.  
b   Emissions and removals reported in these columns should be as report ed in the most recent annual inventory submission available  and consistent with the emissions and 
removals reported in the table on GHG emissions and trends provided in accordance with section IV of these guidelines. Where the sectoral breakdown differs fr om that 
reported in the GHG inventory, Parties should explain in their national communication how the inventory sectors relate to the  sectors reported in this table.  
c   Parties may include indirect CO 2 emissions in historical GHG emissions and in GHG emission  projections and shall indicate this in a custom footnote below.  
d   Parties should include projections on a quantitative basis starting from the most recent inventory year and  for subsequent years that end in either a zero or a five, 
extending at least 15 years from the most recent  inventory year.  
e   The most recent inventory year.  
f   A year that ends in either a zero or a five following the most recent inventory year,  extending at least 15 years from the most recent inventory year.   
g   In ac cordance with paragraph 31 of the se guidelines , projections shall be presented on a sectoral basis, to the extent possible, using the same sectoral categories as used 
in the GHG inventories . This table should follow, to the extent possible, the same sector al categories as those listed in paragraph 14 of th ese guidelines; namely, t o the 
extent appropriate, the following sectors should be considered: energy, transport, industry/industrial processes  and product use, agriculture, forestry/LULUCF,  waste 
management/waste, other sectors and cross -cutting.   
h   To the extent possible, the following sectors should be used: energy, transport, industry/industrial processes  and product use, agriculture, forestry/LULUCF, waste 
management/waste and other sectors (i.e.  cross -cutting), as appropriate.  
i   Parties may choose to report total emissions with or without LULUCF, as appropriate.  
   
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
 39 
 
Table 3  
Information on updated greenhouse gas projections under a ‘without measures’ scenarioa 
 GHG emissions and removalsb, c 
(kt CO 2 eq) GHG emissions and removalsc, d 
(kt CO 2 eq) 
Base year  1990  1995  2000  2005  2010  … 20XXe 20YYf 20ZZg … … … 
Sectorh, i           
Energy             
Transport            
Industry/industrial processes  and 
product use    
      
  
Agriculture            
Forestry/LULUCF            
Waste management/waste            
Other (specify)            
Gas            
CO 2 emissions including net CO 2 
from LULUCF    
      
  
CO 2 emissions excluding net CO 2 
from LULUCF    
      
  
CH 4 emissions including CH 4 from 
LULUCF    
      
  
CH 4 emissions excluding CH 4 
from LULUCF    
      
  
N2O emissions including N 2O 
from LULUCF          
  
N2O emissions excluding N 2O 
from LULUCF          
  
HFCs            
PFCs            
SF6           
Other (specify, e.g. NF 3)           
 Total with LULUCFj            
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
40  
 
 GHG emissions and removalsb, c 
(kt CO 2 eq) GHG emissions and removalsc, d 
(kt CO 2 eq) 
Base year  1990  1995  2000  2005  2010  … 20XXe 20YYf 20ZZg … … … 
 Total without LULUCF            
Abbreviations : GHG = greenhouse gas, LULUCF = land use, land -use change and forestry.  
a   In accordance with paragraph 25 of these guidelines,  at a minimum Parties shall report a ‘with measures’ projection  and they may also report ‘without measures’ and 
‘with additional measures’ projection s. If a Party chooses to report ‘without measures’ and/or ‘with additional measures’ projection,  they are to use table 3 and/or 4 below , 
respectively. If a Party does not choose to report ‘without measures’ or ‘with additional measures’ projection s, then it should not include table 3 or 4 in the national 
communication.  
b   Emissions and removals reported in these columns should be as reported in the most recent annual inventory submission available  and consistent with the emissions 
and removals reported in the table on GHG emissions and trends provided in accordance with sec tion IV of these guidelines. Where the sectoral breakdown differs from 
that reported in the GHG inventory, Parties should explain in their national communication  how the inventory sectors relate to the sectors reported in this table.  
c   Parties may include i ndirect CO 2 emissions in historical GHG emissions and in GHG emission projections and shall indicate this in a custom footnote below.  
d   Parties should include projections on a quantitative basis starting from the most recent inventory year (or an earlier ye ar followed by the most recent inventory year) 
and for subsequent years that end in either a zero or a five, extending at least 15 years from the most recent inventory year . 
e   The starting year of the projections.  
f   The most recent inventory year, in the case  that the projections are started from an earlier year.  
g   A year that ends in either a zero or a five, following the most recent inventory year, extending at least 15 years from the m ost recent inventory year.  
h   In accordance with paragraph 31 of these guidelines, projections shall be presented on a sectoral basis, to the extent possible, using the same sectoral categories us ed 
in the GHG inventories. This table should follow, to the extent possible, the same sectoral categories as those listed in par agraph 14 of these guidelines; namely, to the 
extent appropriate, the following sectors should be considered: energy, transport, industry/industrial processes and product use, agriculture, forestry/LULUCF, waste 
management/waste, other sectors and cross -cutting. 
i   To the extent possible, the following sectors should be used: energy, transport, industry/industrial processes and product us e, agriculture, forestry/LULUCF, waste 
management/waste, other sectors (i.e. cross -cutting), as appropriate.  
j   Parties may choos e to report total emissions with or without LULUCF, as appropriate.  
k    
   
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
 41 
 
 
Table 4  
Information on updated greenhouse gas projections under a ‘with additional measures’ scenarioa 
 GHG emissions and removalsb, c 
(kt CO 2 eq)  GHG emission projectionsc, d 
(kt CO 2 eq) 
Base year  1990  1995  2000  2005  2010  … 20XXe  20YYf … … … 
Sectorg,h          
Energy           
Transport           
Industry/industrial processes  and 
product use    
      
 
Agriculture           
Forestry/LULUCF           
Waste management/waste           
Other (specify)           
Gas           
CO 2 emissions including net CO 2 
from LULUCF    
      
 
CO 2 emissions excluding net CO 2 
from LULUCF    
      
 
CH 4 emissions including CH 4 
from LULUCF    
      
 
CH 4 emissions excluding CH 4 
from LULUCF    
      
 
N2O emissions including N 2O 
from LULUCF          
 
N2O emissions excluding N 2O 
from LULUCF          
 
HFCs           
PFCs           
SF6          
Other (specify, e.g. NF 3)  
         
 
 Total with LULUCFi           
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
42  
 
 GHG emissions and removalsb, c 
(kt CO 2 eq)  GHG emission projectionsc, d 
(kt CO 2 eq) 
Base year  1990  1995  2000  2005  2010  … 20XXe  20YYf … … … 
 Total without LULUCF           
Abbreviations : GHG = greenhouse gas, LULUCF = land use, land -use change and forestry.  
a   In accordance with paragraph 25 of these guidelines, at a minimum Parties shall report a ‘with measures’ projection  and they may also report ‘without measures’ 
and ‘with additional measures’ projection s. If a Party chooses to report ‘without measures’ and/or ‘with additional measures’ projection s, they are to  use table 3 and/or 4 
below , respectively. If a Party does not choose to report ‘without measures’ or ‘with additional measures’ projection s, then it should not include table 3 or 4 in the 
national communication.  
b   Emissions and removals reported in these columns should be as reported in the most recent annual inventory submission available and  consistent with the emissions 
and removals reported in the table on GHG emissions and trends provided in accordance with sec tion IV of these guidelines. Where the sectoral breakdown differs from 
that reported in the GHG inventory, Parties should explain in their national communication  how the inventory sectors relate to the sectors reported in this table.  
c   Parties may include i ndirect CO 2 emissions in historical GHG emissions and in GHG emission projections and shall indicate this in a custom footnote below.  
d   Parties should include projections on a quantitative basis starting from the most recent inventory year and for subsequent  years that end in either a zero or a five, 
extending at least 15 years from the most recent  inventory year.  
e   The most recent inventory year.  
f   A year that ends in either a zero or a five, following the most recent inventory year , extending at least 15 years from the most recent inventory year.  
g   In accordance with paragraph 31 of the se guidelines , projections shall be presented on a sectoral basis, to the extent possible, using the same sectoral categories 
used in the GHG inventories . This table should follow, to the extent possible, the same sectoral categories as those listed in paragraph 14 of th ese guidelines ; namely, t o 
the extent appropriate, the following sectors should be considered: energy, transport, industry/industrial proc esses and product use, agriculture, forestry/LULUCF,  waste 
management/waste, other sectors and cross -cutting.  
h   To the extent possible, the following sectors should be used: energy, transport, industry/industrial processes  and product use, agriculture, fores try/LULUCF, waste 
management/waste, other sectors (i.e. cross -cutting), as appropriate.  
i   Parties may choose to report total emissions with or without LULUCF, as appropriate.  
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
 43 35. Figures illustrating the information referred to in paragraphs 31 –34 above should be 
presented showing unadjusted inventory data and a ‘with measures’ projection for the period 
from 1990 (or another base year, as appropriate) to the most recent inventory year and for 
subsequent years that end in either a zero or a five, extending at least 15 years from the most 
recent inventory year. Additional figures m ay also be presented. The figure below illustrates 
the presentation of a hypothetical Party’s projection of emissions. It shows unadjusted 
inventory data for the period from 1990 to the most recent inventory year and ‘with 
measures’, ‘with additional measu res’ and ‘without measures’ projections.  
Hypothetical Party’s projection of emissions  
 
E. Assessment of aggregate effect of policies and measures  
36. The estimated and expected effects of individual policies and measures are addressed 
in the policies and measures section of the national communication. In the projections section 
of the national communication, Parties shall present the estimated and expec ted total effect 
of implemented and adopted policies and measures. Parties may also present the total 
expected effect of planned policies and measures.  
37. Parties shall provide an estimate of the total effect of their policies and measures, in 
accordance wit h the ‘with measures’ definition, compared with a situation without such 
policies and measures. That effect shall be presented in terms of GHG emissions avoided or 
sequestered, by gas (on a CO 2 eq basis), in the most recent inventory year and in subsequent  
years that end in either a zero or a five, extending at least 15 years from the most recent 
inventory year (not cumulative savings). This information may be presented in tabular 
format.  
38. Parties may estimate the total effect of their measures by calculatin g the difference 
between a ‘with measures’ and a ‘without measures’ projection. Alternatively, Parties may 
use another approach, for example individually assessing the effect of each significant policy 
and measure and aggregating the individual effects to arrive at a total. In either case, in the 
reporting it should be clear from what year onward it was assumed that policies were 
implemented or not implemented in calculating the estimate.  
F. Methodology  
39. When projecting GHG emissions and removals and estimating  the total effects of 
policies and measures on emissions and removals, Parties may use any models and/or 
approaches that they choose. Sufficient information should be reported in the national 
FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
44  communication to allow a reader to obtain a basic understanding of such models and/or 
approaches.  
40. In the interest of transparency, for each model or approach used, Parties should 
briefly:  
(a) Explain for which gases and/or sectors it was used;  
(b) Describe its type and characteristics (for example, top -down model, bottom -up 
model, accounting model or expert judgment);  
(c) Describe the original purpose that it was designed for and, if applicable, how 
it has been modified for climate change purposes;  
(d) Summarize its strengths and weaknesses;  
(e) Explain how it accounts for any overlap or synergies that may exist between 
different policies and measures.  
41. Parties should provide references to more detailed information related to the 
information referred to in paragraph 40(a –e) above.  
42. Parties should report the main differences in ass umptions, methods employed and 
results between the projections reported in the current national communication and those 
reported in previous national communications.  
43. The sensitivity of the projections to underlying assumptions should be discussed 
qualitati vely and, where possible, quantitatively.  
44. To ensure transparency, Parties should report information on key underlying 
assumptions and values of variables such as GDP growth, population growth, tax levels and 
international fuel prices, using table 5 below. The information should be limited to that not 
covered by paragraph 45 below (i.e. it should not include sector -specific data).  
45. To provide the reader with an understanding of emission trends from 1990 to at least 
15 years from the most recent inventory year , Parties shall present relevant information on 
factors and activities for each sector. Such information may be presented in tabular format .  
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
 45 
 
Table 5  
Summary of key variables and assumptions used in the projections analysisa   
 Historicalb Projected  
Key 
underlying 
assumptions  1990  1995  2000  2005  2010   …  
  
 
20XXc  20YYd … …   
               
              
              
               
              
              
              
              
              
                       
a   Parties should include key underlying assumptions , as appropriate.  
b   Parties should include  the historical data used to develop the greenhouse gas emission projections reported.  
c   The most recent inventory year.  
d   A year that ends in either a zero or a five following the most recent inventory year , extending a t least 15 years from the most recent inventory year . 
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
46  VII. Vulnerability assessment, climate change impacts and 
adaptation measures  
46. The national communication shall include information on the expected impacts of 
climate change and an outline of the action taken to implement Article 4, paragraph 1(b) and 
(e), of the Convention with regard to adaptation. Parties are encouraged to use and  reference 
relevant methodologies and guidance for assessing climate change impacts, vulnerability and 
adaptation measures. Parties may refer, inter alia , to integrated plans for coastal zone 
management, water resources and agriculture. Parties may also re port on specific results of 
scientific research in the field of vulnerability assessment and adaptation.  
47. Parties are encouraged to use the following structure when reporting information in 
this section:  
(a) Climate modelling, projections and scenarios: for e xample, updated 
information on climate modelling, climate projections and scenarios relevant to the 
assessment of climate change impacts and vulnerability;  
(b) Assessment of risks and vulnerability to climate change: for example, updated 
information on key eco nomic, social and/or environmental vulnerabilities or risks related to 
current and expected climate change impacts;  
(c) Climate change impacts: for example, updated information on both observed 
and potential future impacts of climate change;  
(d) Domestic adaptat ion policies and strategies: for example, updated information 
on progress on adaptation policies, strategies or plans that illustrate the Party’s medium - and 
long-term approaches to addressing risks and vulnerability through its broader domestic 
developmen t and sectoral planning;  
(e) Monitoring and evaluation framework: for example, updated information on 
approaches to the monitoring and evaluation of implemented adaptation strategies or plans;  
(f) Progress and outcomes of adaptation action: for example, updated information 
on adaptation measures taken to address current risks and vulnerabilities and on their status 
of implementation;  and updated information on progress and, where possible, outcomes and 
the effectiveness of already implemented adaptation m easures.  
VIII.  Financial , technological and c apacity -building  support    
48. Parties included in Annex II to the Convention (Annex II Parties) shall provide 
information on the provision of financial, technological and capacity -building support to 
Parties not included  in Annex I to the Convention (non -Annex I Parties), including 
information to show how this support is new and additional. In reporting such information, 
Parties should distinguish, to the extent possible, between support provided to non -Annex I 
Parties fo r mitigation and adaptation activities, noting the capacity -building elements of such 
activities, where relevant. For activities with multiple objectives, the funding could be 
reported as a contribution allocated partially to the other relevant objectives.   
49. Each Annex II Party shall provide a description of its national approach to the tracking 
of the provision of financial, technological and capacity -building support to non -Annex I 
Parties, if appropriate. This description shall also include information on  indicators and 
delivery mechanisms used and allocation channels tracked.  
50. In reporting information in accordance with paragraphs 52 and 53 below, Annex II 
Parties shall use any methodology to be developed under the Convention, taking into account 
internat ional experience. Annex II Parties shall describe the methodology used and shall 
report in a rigorous, robust and transparent manner the underlying assumptions and 
methodologies used to produce information on finance.  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
 47 A. Finance  
51. Each Annex II Party shall des cribe, to the extent possible, how it seeks to ensure that 
the resources it provides effectively address the needs of non -Annex I Parties with regard to 
climate change adaptation and mitigation.  
52. Each Annex II Party shall provide information on the financia l support that it has 
disbursed and committed for the purpose of assisting non -Annex I Parties to mitigate GHG 
emissions and adapt to the adverse effects of climate change and any economic and social 
consequences of response measures, and for capacity -building and technology transfer in the 
areas of mitigation and adaptation, where appropriate. To that end, each Annex II Party shall 
provide summary information in textual and tabular format (see tables 6, 7 and 8 below) on 
allocation channels and annual cont ributions for the previous two calendar or financial years, 
without overlapping with the previous reporting periods, including, as appropriate, the 
following:  
(a) The Global Environment Facility, the Least Developed Countries Fund, the 
Special Climate Change F und, the Adaptation Fund, the Green Climate Fund and the 
UNFCCC Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities;  
(b) Other multilateral climate change funds;  
(c) Multilateral financial institutions, including regional development banks;  
(d) Specialized United Nations bodies;  
(e) Contributions through bilateral, regional and other channels.  
53. Each Annex II Party shall provide the summary information referred to in paragraph 
52 above for the previous two calendar or financial years in textual and tabular format on the 
annual f inancial support that it has provided for the purpose of assisting non -Annex I Parties, 
including the following:  
(a) The amount of financial resources (including the amount in original currency 
and its equivalent in United States dollars/international currency ); 
(b) The type of support (for mitigation and adaptation activities);  
(c) The source of funding;  
(d) The financial instrument;  
(e) The sector;  
(f) An indication of what new and additional financial resources it has provided 
pursuant to Article 4, paragraph 3, of the Conventi on, including clarification of how it has 
determined that such resources are new and additional.  
54. Each Annex II Party shall provide detailed information on the assistance provided by 
it for the purpose of assisting developing country Parties that are partic ularly vulnerable to 
the adverse effects of climate change in meeting the costs of adaptation to those adverse 
effects, in textual format and w ith reference to table 6 below.  
55. Recognizing that the goal of mobilizing financial resources referred to in decision 
1/CP.16, paragraph 98, includes private financial sources, each Annex II Party should report, 
to the extent possible, on private financial flows leveraged by bilateral climate finance 
towards mitigation and adaptation activities in non -Annex I Par ties, and should report on 
policies and measures that promote the scaling up of private investment in mitigation and 
adaptation activities in developing country Parties.  
56. Each Annex II Party should specify the types of instrument used in the provision of 
their assistance, such as grants and concessional loans.  
  
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
48  
 
Table 6  
Provision of public financial support: summary information in 20XX -3a 
   Year   
Allocation channel  Domestic currency   USDb 
Core/  
generalc, 1 Climate -specificd, 2  
Core/  
generalc Climate -specificd,2 
Mitigation  Adaptation  Cross -
cuttinge Otherf  Mitigation  Adaptation  Cross -
cuttinge Otherf 
Total contributions 
through multilateral 
channels:  
Multilateral climate 
change fundsg            
Other multilateral 
climate change fundsh            
Multilateral financial 
institutions, including 
regional development 
banks             
Specialized United 
Nations bodies             
Total contributions 
through bilateral, regional 
and other channels             
Total            
Note : Explanation of numerical footnotes is provided in the documentation box after tables 6, 7 and 8.  
a   Parties should fill in a separate table for each year, namely 20XX -3 and 20XX -2, where 20XX is the reporting year.   
b   Parties should  provide an explanation of the methodology used for currency exchange for the information provided in tables 6, 7 and 8 in the documentation box.  
c   This refers  to support provided to multilateral institutions that Parties cannot specify as being climate -specific.  
d   Parties  should explain in their national communication how they define funds as being climate -specific.  
e   This refers to funding for activities that are cross -cutting across mitigation and adaptation.  
f   Please  specify.  
g   Multilateral climate change funds listed in paragraph 52(a) of these gu idelines .  
h   Other  multilateral climate  change funds as referred to in paragraph 52(b) of these g uidelines.    
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
 49 
 
Table 7  
Provis ion of public financial support: contributions through multilateral channels in 20XX -3a 
Donor funding  Total amount  Statusb, 3 Funding 
source4 Financial 
instrument5 Type of  
support6 Sectorc, 7 
Core/generald, 1 Climate -specifice, 2 
Committed  
Disbursed  
 ODA  
OOF  
Otherf Grant  
Concessional 
loan 
Non-concessional 
loan 
Equity  
Otherf Mitigation  
Adaptation  
Cross -
cuttingg 
Otherf Energy  
Transport  
Industry  
Agriculture  
Forestry  
Water and sanitation  
Cross -cutting  
Otherf 
Not applicable  Domestic 
currency  USD  Domestic 
currency  USD  
Multilateral climate change funds  
1.  Global Environment Facility  
2.  Least Developed Countries Fund  
3.  Special Climate Change Fund  
4.  Adaptation Fund  
5.  Green Climate Fund  
6.  UNFCCC Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities  
7.  Other multilateral climate change funds      
     
Subtotal           
Multilateral financial institutions, including regional 
development banks  
1.  World Bank  
2.  International Finance Corporation  
3.  African Development Bank  
4.  Asian Development Bank  
5.  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development  
6.  Inter -American Development Bank                           
7.  Other      
     
Subtotal           
          
 
 
           
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
50  
 
Donor funding  Total amount  Statusb, 3 Funding 
source4 Financial 
instrument5 Type of  
support6 Sectorc, 7 
Core/generald, 1 Climate -specifice, 2 
Committed  
Disbursed  
 ODA  
OOF  
Otherf Grant  
Concessional 
loan 
Non-concessional 
loan 
Equity  
Otherf Mitigation  
Adaptation  
Cross -
cuttingg 
Otherf Energy  
Transport  
Industry  
Agriculture  
Forestry  
Water and sanitation  
Cross -cutting  
Otherf 
Not applicable  Domestic 
currency  USD  Domestic 
currency  USD  
Specialized United Nations bodies  
1.  United Nations Development Programme  
     (specific programmes)  
2. United Nations Environment Programme  
    (specific programmes)  
3. Other      
     
Subtotal           
Total           
Note : Explanation of numerical footnotes is provided in the documentation box after tables 6, 7 and 8.  
Abbreviations : ODA = official development assistance, OOF = other official flows .  
a   Parties should fill in a separate table for each year, namely 20XX -3 and 20XX -2, where 20XX is the reporting year.  
b   Parties should explain, in their national communication, the methodologies used to specify the funds as disbursed and committed. Parties will provide  the information for 
as many status categories as appropriate in the following order of pri ority: disbursed and committed.  
c   Parties may select several applicable sectors. Parties may report sectoral distribution, as applicable, under “Other”.  
d   This refers to support provided to multilateral institutions that Parties cannot specify as being climat e-specific.  
e   Parties should explain in their national communication how they define funds as being climate -specific.  
f   Please specify.  
g   This refers to funding for activities that are cross -cutting across mitigation and adaptation.  
   
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
 51 
 
 
Table 8  
Provision of public financial support: contributions through bilateral, regional and other channels in 20XX -3a 
Recipient country/  
region/project/programme/activityb Total amount  Statusc, 3 Funding 
source4 Financial 
instrument5 Type of  
 support6 Sector,d, 7 Additional  
informatione 
Climate -specificf, 2 
 
 
 Committed  
Disbursed  ODA  
OOF  
Otherg Grant  
Concessional loan  
Non-concessional 
loan 
Equity  
Otherg Mitigation  
Adaptation  
Cross -cuttingh 
Otherg Energy  
Transport  
Industry  
Agriculture  
Forestry  
Water and sanitation  
Cross -cutting  
Otherg  
Domestic 
currency  USD   
          
          
          
          
          
          
          
Note : Explanation of numerical footnotes is provided in the documentation box after tables 6, 7 and 8.  
Abbreviations : ODA = official development assistance, OOF = other official flows . 
Parties should fill in a separate table for each year, namely 20XX -3 and 20XX -2, where 20XX is the reporting year.  
a   Parties should report, to the extent possible, on the detai ls contained in this table.  
b   Parties should explain, in their national communication, the methodologies used to specify the funds as disbursed and committ ed. Parties will provide the 
information for as many status categories as appropriate in the following order of priority: disbursed and committed.  
c   Parties may select several applicable sectors. Parties may report sectoral distribution, as applicable, under “Other”.  
d   Parties should report, as appropriate, on project details and the implementing agency.  
e   Partie s should explain in their national communication  how they define funds as being climate -specific.   
f   Please specify.  
g   This refers to funding for activities that are cross -cutting across mitigation and adaptation.  
   
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
52  
 
 
Documentation box  
 1: Core/general  
 
 
 
 
2: Climate -specific  
  
 
 
 
3: Status  
 
 
 
 
4: Funding source  
 
 
 
 
5: Financial instrument  
  
 
 
 
6: Type of support  
 
 
 
 
7: Sector  
  
 
 
 
Each Party shall provide an indication of what new and additional financial resources it has provided and clarify how it has determined that such resources are new and 
additional. Please provide this information in relation to tables 7 and 8  
  
 
 
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
 53 B. Technology development and transfer  
57. Each Annex II Party shall provide information on measures taken to promote, 
facilitate and finance the transfer of, access to and the deployment of climate -friend ly 
technologies for the benefit of non -Annex I Parties and for the support of the development 
and enhancement of endogenous capacities and technologies of non -Annex I Parties. Parties 
shall, where feasible, report activities related to technology transfer,  including success and 
failure stories, using table 9 below.  
58. Each Annex II Party shall provide, in textual and tabular formats (see table 10 below), 
information on measures and activities related to technology transfer implemented or planned 
since its pre vious national communication or biennial report. In reporting such measures and 
activities, Annex II Parties shall, to the extent possible, provide information on the recipient 
country, the targeted area of mitigation or adaptation, the sector involved and  the sources of 
technology transfer from the public or private sectors, and shall distinguish between activities 
undertaken by the public and private sectors.  As the ability of Parties to collect adequate 
information on private -sector activities is limited , Parties may indicate, where feasible, how 
they have encouraged private -sector activities and how those activities help Parties to meet 
their commitments under Article 4, paragraphs 3, 4 and 5, of the Convention.  
  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
54  Table 9  
Description of selected projects or programmes that promoted practicable  
steps to facilitate and/or finance the transfer of, or access to, environmentally sound 
technologies  
Project/programme title:  
 
Purpose:  
 
 
 
Recipient country:  Sector:  Total funding:  Years in operation:  
 
    
Description:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Factors that led to project/programme’s success:  
 
 
 
Technology transferred:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Impact on greenhouse gas emissions/removals (optional):  
 
 
 
  
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
 55 
 
Table 10  
Provision of support for technology development and transfera, b  
Recipient country 
and/or region  Targeted area  Measures and 
activities related to 
technology transfer  Sectorc Source of funding for 
technology transfer  Activities undertaken 
by Status  Additional informationd 
  Mitigation  
Adaptation  
Mitigation and 
adaptation     Energy  
Transport  
Industry  
Agriculture  
Water and 
sanitation  
Other  Private  
Public  
Private and public  Private  
Public  
Private and public   Implemented  
Planned    
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
          
a   To be reported to the extent possible.  
b   The table should include measures and activities implemented or planned since the previous national communication or biennial rep ort. 
c   Parties  may report sectoral disaggregation, as appropriate.  
d   Additional information may include, for example, information on funding for technology development and transfer provided, a short description of the measure or activity and 
information on cofinancing arrangements.  
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
56  C. Capacity -building  
59. Each Annex II Party shall provide information, to the extent possible, on how it has 
provided capacity -building support that responds to existing and emerging capacity -building 
needs identified by non -Annex I Parties in the areas of mitigation, adaptation and technology 
development and transfer. Information should be reported in textual and tabular format (see 
table 11 below) as a description of individual measures and activities.  
Table 11  
Provision of capacity -building supporta 
Recipient country/region  Targeted area  Programme or project 
title Description of programme or 
projectb, c 
  Mitigation  
Adaptation  
Technology development and transfer  
Multiple areas      
      
 
 
    
a   To be reported to the extent possible.  
b   Each  Party included in Annex II to the Convention shall provide information, to the extent possible, on how it has 
provided capacity -building support that responds to existing and emerging capacity -building needs ide ntified by 
Parties not included in Annex I to the Convention in the areas of mitigation, adaptation and technology development 
and transfer.  
c   Additional information may be provided on, for example, the measure or activity and cofinancing arrangements.  
IX. Research and systematic observation  
60. Pursuant to Articles 4, paragraph 1(g) and (h), 5 and 12, paragraph 1(b), of the 
Convention, Annex I Parties shall communicate information on their actions relating to 
research and systematic observation.  
61. The national co mmunication shall address both domestic and international activities 
(for example, the activities of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the World 
Climate Research Programme, Future Earth and the Global Climate Observing System) and 
also reflect  action taken to support related capacity -building in developing countries.  
62. Parties shall provide summary information on global climate observing system 
activities in accordance with paragraph 67 below. To guide the reporting under sections A 
and C below, Parties should refer to the detailed guidance provided in the revised “UNFCCC 
reporting guidelines on global climate observing systems”  (annex to decision 11/CP.13) and 
any relevant decisions subsequently adopted by the COP . 
63. The national communication shou ld report, in summary form, on action taken. For 
example, the results of research studies, model runs or data analysis should not be included 
in this section.  
A. General policy on and funding of research and systematic observation  
64. Parties should provide infor mation on their general policy on and funding of research 
and systematic observation.  
65. Parties should identify opportunities for and barriers to free and open international 
exchange of data and information and report on action taken to overcome such barrie rs. 
B. Research  
66. Parties should provide, inter alia , information on highlights, innovations and 
significant efforts made with regard to:  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
 57 (a) Climate process and climate system studies, including paleoclimatic studies;  
(b) Modelling and prediction, including global and  regional climate models;  
(c) Research on the impacts of climate change;  
(d) Socioeconomic analysis, including analysis of both the impacts of climate 
change and response options;  
(e) Research and  development of mitigation and adaptation approaches, including 
technolo gies. 
C. Systematic observation  
67. Parties should provide summary information on the current status of national plans, 
programmes and support for ground - and space -based climate observing systems, including 
long-term continuity of data, data quality control and availability, and exchange and 
archiving of data  in the following areas:  
(a) Atmospheric climate observing systems, including those measuring 
atmospheric constituents;  
(b) Ocean climate observing systems;  
(c) Terrestrial climate observing systems;  
(d) Cryosphe re climate observing systems;  
(e) Support for  developing countries to establish and maintain observing systems 
and related data and monitoring systems.  
X. Education, training and public awareness  
68. In accordance with Articles 4, paragraph 1(i), 6 and 12, paragraph  1(b), of the 
Convention, Annex I Parties shall communicate information on their actions relating to 
education, training and public awareness. In this section, Parties should report, inter alia , on 
public information and education materials, resource or in formation centres, training 
programmes and participation in international activities. Parties may report on the extent of 
public participation in the preparation or domestic review of the national communication.  
69. The national communication may present infor mation on such aspects as:  
(a) General policy on education, training and public awareness;  
(b) Primary, secondary and higher education;  
(c) Public information campaigns;  
(d) Training programmes;  
(e) Resource or information centres;  
(f) Involvement of the public and non -governmental organizations;  
(g) Participation in international activities;  
(h) Monitoring, review and evaluation of the implementation of Article 6 of the 
Convention.  
XI. Updating of the guidelines  
70. These guidelines shall be reviewed  and revised, as appropriate, in accordance with 
relevant COP decisions.  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
58  XII. Structure of the national communication  
71. The information identified in these guidelines shall be communicated by each Party 
in a single document in one of the official languages of th e United Nations. Parties shall 
provide an electronic version of their national communication to the secretariat through the 
appropriate UNFCCC submission system.  The length of the national communication may be 
decided by the submitting Party, but every ef fort sh all be made to avoid overlong  national 
communications, in order to facilitate the consideration process.  
72. Where supplementary documents are provided as annexes to the national 
communication, the annexes are considered as part of the national communic ation itself. A 
clear reference to the relevant information in the annexes should be provided in the main text 
of the national communication .  
73. Where statistical data are provided, they should be accompanied by a definition of 
terms, unless they are obvious . 
74. To facilitate the transparency, comparability and consistency of national 
communications, Parties shall organize the content of their national communication 
following the outline contained in the appendix and may rephrase the subsection headings as 
appro priate and explain the reasons for rephrasing. To ensure completeness, no mandatory 
element shall be excluded. If mandatory elements cannot be reported for any reason, the Party 
shall explain the reason for partial reporting in the section relating to thos e elements.  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.1  
 59 Appendix  
Structure of the national communication  
I. Executive summary  
 
II. National circumstances relevant to greenhouse gas  
 emissions and removals  
  
III. Greenhouse gas inventory information   
 
 A. Summary tables  
 B. Descriptive summary  
 C. N ational inventory arrangements  
 
IV. Policies and measures  
 
 A.  Policymaking process  
 B.  Policies and measures and their effects  
 C.  Policies and measures no longer in place  
 
V.  Projections and total effect of policies and measures  
 
A. Projections  
B. Assessment of aggregate effect of policies and measures  
C. Methodology  
 
VI.  Vulnerability assessment, climate change impacts and  
 adaptation measures  
 
VII.  Financial, technological and capacity -building support  
 
A.  Finance  
B. Technology development and transfer  
C.  Capacity -building  
 
VIII.  Research and systematic observation  
 
A.  General policy on and funding of research and systematic observation  
B.  Research  
C.  Systematic observation  
 
IX.  Education, training and public awareness  
 
 Annex . Supplementary documents  
7th plenary meeting  
12 December 2019  
     GE.20 -04094(E)  

Conference of the Parties  
  Report of the Conference of the Parties on its twenty -fifth 
session, held in Madrid  from 2 to 1 5 December 2019  
 Addendum  
 Part two: Act ion taken by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -
fifth session  
Contents  
  Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties  
 Decision  Page  
  7/CP.25  National adaptation plans ................................ ................................ ..  2 
  8/CP.25  Annual technica l progress report of the Paris Committee on  
Capacity -building  for 2019  ................................ ...............................   4 
  9/CP.25  Review of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building  ......................   5 
  10/CP.25  Fourth comprehensive review of the implementation of the  
framework for capacity -building in developing countries under  
the Convention  ................................ ................................ ..................   8 
  11/CP.25  Matters relating to the Standing Committee on Finance  ...................   10 
  12/CP.25  Report of the Green Climate Fund to the Conference o f the Parties  
and guidance to the Green Climate Fund  ................................ ..........   12 
  13/CP.25  Report of the Global Environment Facility to the Conference of the  
Parties and guidance to the Global Environment Facility  .................   15 
  14/CP.25  Enhancing climate technology development and transfer through  
the Technology Mechanism  ................................ ..............................   17 
  15/CP.25  Terms of reference for the review of the Doha work programme on  
Article 6 of the Convention  ................................ ..............................   20 
  16/CP.25  Dates and venues of future sessions  ................................ ..................   24 
  17/CP.25  Programme budget for the biennium 2020 –2021  .............................   26 
  18/CP.25  Administrative, financial and institutional matter s ...........................   36 
  Resolution  
  1/CP.25  Expression of gratitude to the Government of the Republic of Chile,  
the Government of the Kingdom of Spain and the people of the  
city of Madrid  ................................ ................................ ...................   38   United Nations  FCCC /CP/2019/13/Add.2  
  
Distr.: General  
16 March 2020  
 
Original: English  
FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.2  
2    Decision 7/CP.25  
  National adaptation plans  
The Conference of the  Parties ,  
 Recalling  decisions 1/CP.16 , 3/CP.17, 5/CP.17, 12/CP.18, 18/CP.19 , 3/CP.20 , 
1/CP.21, 4/CP.21, 6/CP.22 and 8/CP.24,  
1. Welcomes the submissions from Ethiopia, Grenada, Guatemala, Saint Vincent and the 
Grenadines , and Uruguay of their national adaptation plans on NAP Ce ntral, bringing th e 
total number of submitted national adaptation plans to 17;1 
2. Takes note  of the work of the A daptation Committee  and the Least Developed 
Countries Expert Group  on gaps and needs related to the process to formulate and implement 
national adaptation plans , including the gaps and needs contained in annex I to document 
FCCC/SBI/2019/16,2 and on ways to assist with the implementation of national adaptation 
plans,  as requested by the Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its forty -seventh session;3 
3. Requests  the A daptation Committee , through its task force on national adaptation 
plans , and the Least Developed Countries Expert Group  to continue to include in their report s 
information on the gaps and needs related to the process to formulate and implement national 
adaptation plans  identified in undertaking their  mandated work and on how to address them ; 
4. Invites constituted bodies and other organizations to provide informat ion to the 
Adaptation Committee  and the Least Developed Countries Expert Group  on activities 
unde rtaken  to address gaps and needs related to the process to formulate and implement 
national adaptation plans;  
5. Emphasizes  the importance of  providing  support to  developing countr y Parties  for 
formulat ing and implement ing national adaptation plans;  
6. Notes  that funding has been made available for developing country Parties under the 
Green Climate Fund , the L east Developed Countries Fund and the S pecial Climate Change 
Fund for the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans , and that other 
chann els of bilateral, multilateral and domestic support have also contributed to enabling 
developing countries to advance their work in the process to formulat e and implement 
national adaptation plans;  
7. Urges  developed country Parties and invites  other Parties that provide resources on a 
voluntary basis, United Nations organizations, specialized agencies and other relevant 
organizations as well as bilateral and m ultilateral agencies to continue to mobilize support 
for adaptation activities in developing country Parties ; 
8. Takes note  of the progress of the Green Climate Fund in enhanc ing the process of 
accessing support for the formulation and implementation of natio nal adaptation plans  and 
expresse s its appreciation  to the Adaptation Committee  and the Least Develop ed Countries 
Expert Group  for their engagement with the Green Climate Fund in this regard ; 
9. Notes  the challenges and complexities experienced by developing country Parties in 
accessing funding from the Green Climate Fund Readiness and Preparatory Support 
Programme for the formulation of national adaptation plans, particularly relating to the 
application and review of proposals for funding;  
10. Invites  delivery pa rtners of the Green Climate Fund Readiness and Preparatory 
Support Programme for the formulation of national adaptation plans  to strengthen efforts to 
support developing countr y Parties  with the goal of expediting the submission of readiness 
proposals to t he Green Climate Fund ; 
                                                           
 1 Available at https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/NAPC/Pages/national -adaptation -plans.aspx . 
 2 As per decision 8/CP.24, paras . 17–18. 
 3 FCCC/SBI/2017/19, para. 73 . FCCC /CP/2019/13/Add.2  
 3 11. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation, at its fifty -third session (N ovember 
2020),  to consider information from the reports of the A daptation Committee  and the Least 
Developed Countries Expert Group,  including on gaps and needs  and the implementation of 
national adaptation plans,  and to take further action as appropriate . 
7th plenary meeting  
12 December 2019  
   FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.2  
4    Decision 8/CP.25 
   Annual technical progress report of the Paris Committee on 
Capacity -building  for 2019  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling decisions 2/CP.17, 1/CP.21, 2/CP.22, 16/CP.22, 16/CP.23 and 15/CP. 24, 
1. Welcomes the annual technical progress report of the Paris Committee on Capacity -
building for 20191 and takes note  of the recommendations contained therein;  
2. Invites Parties, as appropriate, the operating entities of the Fin ancial Mechanism, the 
constit uted bodies under the Convention, United Nations organizations, observers and other 
stakeholders  to consider the recommendations referred to in paragraph 1 above and to take 
any necessary action, as appropriate and in accordanc e with their mandates;  
3. Welcom es the work of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building in relation to 
enhancing the coherence and coordination of capacity -building activities under the 
Convention, including its collaboration with constituted bodies and other  actors under the 
Convention;  
4. Also welcomes  the collaboration of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building with 
Parties and non -Party stakeholders, including through the Capacity -building Hub and social 
media;  
5. Takes note of the 2020 focus area of the  Paris Committee on Capacity -buildin g of 
strengthening the coherence and coordination of capacity -building activities for 
implementing nationally determined contributions.2 
7th plenary meeting  
12 December 2019
                                                           
 1 FCCC/SBI/2019/13.  
 2 See docume nt FCCC/SBI/2019/13, para. 38.  FCCC/CP/2 019/13/Add.2  
 5    Decision 9/CP.25  
  Review of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building  
The Confe rence of the Parties , 
Recalling decisions 1/CP.21, 2/CP.22, 16/CP.22, 16/CP.23 and 15/CP.24,  
1. Recalls that the Paris Committee on Capacity -building was established in decision 
1/CP.21 with the aim of addressing gaps and needs, both current and emerging, in 
implementing capacity -building in developing country Parties  and further enhancing 
capacity -building efforts, including with regard to coherence and coordination of capacity -
building activities under the Convention;  
2. Welcomes  the annual technical progress r eports of the Paris Committee on Capacity -
building for 2017,  2018 and 2019, and takes note  of the recommendations contained therein;1 
3. Reaffirms  the need to further promote efficiencies and to avoid duplication of efforts 
in the implementation of capacity -building activities under and outside the Convention;  
4. Notes that the Paris Committee on Capacity -building has made some progress in the 
implementation of the 2016 –2020 workplan, and has implemented actions with regard to, 
inter alia:  
(a) Enhancing coherence and  coordination of capacity -building activities under 
the Conv ention;  
(b) Promoting the development and dissemination of tools and methodologies for 
implementing capacity -building;  
(c) Gathering information and sharing best practices in relation to capacity -
building ; 
(d) Identifying methods of bringing together stakeholders, suc h as through 
meetings of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building and the Capacity -building Hub;  
5. Also notes that progress has varied across the areas of work referred to in paragraph 4 
above;  
6. Further notes  that the Paris Committee on Capacity -building has made limited 
progress in some areas of its work;  
7. Recognizes that the Paris Committee on Capacity -building has received a very broad 
workplan for 2016 –2020, with limited specific guidance provided by the Conference of the 
Parties on the areas that the Commi ttee should prioritize in implementing its work;  
8. Decides that, in order to ensure that the Paris Committee on Capacity -building can 
operate effectively and efficiently, there is a need for Parties  to determine priority areas 
related to its mandate to focus  and guide its work, avoid duplication of efforts in the 
implementation of capacity -building activities and provide guidance on the operations, 
planning and implementation of work, and reporting o f the Paris Committee on Capacity -
building;  
9. Also decides  that the priority areas of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building are:  
(a) Enhancing coherence and coordination of capacity -building under the 
Convention with a focus on avoiding duplication of effort s, including through collaboration 
with bodies under and out side the Convention that engage in activities related to capacity -
building , as appropriate and in accordance with their respective mandates ; 
(b) Identifying capacity gaps and needs, both current and e merging, and 
recommending ways to address them;  
                                                           
 1  FCCC/SBI/2017/11, FCCC/SBI/2018/15 and FCCC/SBI/2019/ 13.  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.2  
6  (c) Promoting a wareness -raising, knowledge - and information -sharing and 
stakeholder engagement with bodies and relevant actors under and outside the Convention , 
as appropriate and in accordance with their respec tive mandates ; 
10. Further decides  that, going forward and subje ct to the availability of resources, the 
Paris Committee on Capacity -building shall conduct the activities set out in the annex, in 
accordance with the priority areas referred to in paragraph 9 ab ove; 
11. Decides  that the Paris Committee on Capacity -building s hall work on any additional 
activities that may be assigned to it by the Conference of the Parties within its mandate, 
subject to the availability of resources;  
12. Also decides  to extend the Paris Co mmittee on Capacity -building for five years and 
to review its progress and need for extension at the thirtieth session of the Conference of the 
Parties (November 2024);  
13. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to initiate at i ts fifty -eighth session  
(June 2023) the preparation of the terms of reference for the second review of the Paris 
Committee on Capacity -building with a view to the Conference of the Parties agreeing on 
the final terms of reference at its twenty -ninth sessio n (November 2023);  
14. Also requests the Paris Committee on Capacity -building to extend its current rolling 
workplan to the end of 2020;  
15. Further requests the Paris Committee on Capacity -building to develop a workplan for 
the period of its extension on the basis of the priority areas  and activities contained in the 
annex for consideration by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -sixth session 
(November 2020);   
16. Requests that the workplan referred to in paragraph 15 above include core elements 
such as pr iority areas, activities, d eliverables, timelines and expected results, in accordance 
with the priority areas referred to in paragraph 9 above;  
17. Also requests the Paris Committee on Capacity -building to report on the expected 
work under its workplan and on  the progress, outcomes, im pacts and effectiveness of the 
activities in its workplan in its annual technical progress report;  
18. Invites Parties and relevant institutions, as appropriate, to provide support and 
resources to the Paris Committee on Capacity -building for implementing its workplan in the 
light of the aim of the Committee established in decision 1/CP.21, paragraph  71; 
19. Reaffirms that, in the light of its mandated functions and activities, the Paris 
Committee on Capacity -building will continue to meet during annual in -session meetings to 
be organized by the Subsidiary Body for Implementation.FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add. 2 
 7 Annex  
Activities of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building  
1. Priority area (a): enhancing coherence and coordination of capacity -building under 
the Convention with a focus on avoiding dupl ication of efforts, including through 
collaboration with bodies unde r and outside the Convention that engage in activities related 
to capacity -building , as appropriate and in accordance with their respective mandates : 
(a) Collating and reviewing current and pl anned capacity -building work of 
constituted bodies established under the Convention that implement capacity -building 
activities in order to provide an overview of capacity -building activities under the 
Convention, and regularly sharing this information wit h the constituted bodies;  
(b) Providing recommendations  to Parties  on how to improve coherence and 
coordination of capacity -building and avoid duplication of efforts;  
(c) Liaising and engaging with bodies under and outside the Convention that are 
engaged in implem enting capacity -building activities, as consistent with their mandates;  
2. Priority area (b): i dentifying capacity gaps and needs, both current and emerging, and 
recommending ways to address them:  
(a) Interacting with other constituted bodies to allow the Paris C ommittee on 
Capacity -building to gather information  on what they are doing to address capacity gaps and 
needs in areas relevant to their mandates to provide input to their work, as appropriate;  
(b) Continuing  efforts to gather and promote the development and d issemination 
of tools and methodologies for implementing capacity -building activities;  
(c) Collating, reviewing and sharing information on experience, good practices 
and lessons learned related to enhancing the ownership of developing countries of building 
and maintaining capacity, and  providing recommendations in this regard;  
3. Priority area  (c): promoting awareness -raising, knowledge - and information -sharing and 
stakeholder engagement with bodies and relevant actors under and outside the Convention , as 
appropri ate and in accordance with  their respective mandates : 
(a) Collecting information from relevant sources, including the Durban Forum, on 
good practices, experience and lessons learned related to capacity -building, and 
disseminating this information, including vi a the capacity -building po rtal, with the aim of 
addressing gaps and needs related to implementing capacity -building;  
(b) Providing recommendations to Parties on:  
(i) Enhancing the sharing of good practices, experience and lessons learned 
related to capacity -buildi ng among relevant bodies u nder and outside the Convention;  
(ii) Potential areas of collaborative work with those bodies whose work is relevant 
to the Paris Committee on Capacity -building and its workplan, within their mandates;  
(iii) How information from the Durban Forum can be utilized by b odies under and 
outside the Convention;  
(c) Organizing the annual Capacity -building Hub at the sessions of the Conference 
of the Parties;  
(d) Promoting strategic stakeholder engagement through, inter alia, targeted 
outreach activities as set out in the workplan to  foster exchange on capacity -building at the 
national and regional level, including through regional climate weeks, as appropriate, and 
subject to the availability of resources.  
7th plenary meeting  
12 December 2019  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.2  
8    Decision 10/CP.25  
  Fourth comprehensive review of the implementation of the 
framework for capacity -building in developing countries 
under the Convention   
 The Conference of the Parties ,  
 Recalling decisions 2/CP.7 and 1/CP.21 ,  
1. Notes  with appreciation  the continued progress in the implementation of the 
framework for capacity -building in developing countries established under decision 2/CP.7 
(hereinafter referred to as the capacity -building framework) under the Convention, 
demonstrated by the increase i n capacity -building activities undertaken by a growing range 
of bodies and practitioners under and outside the Convention during the period covered by 
the fourth comprehensive review of the implementation of the capacity -building framework 
under the Conven tion (2017 –2019 );  
2. Recognizes  that, while the objective and scope of capacity -building in developing 
countries as set out in decision 2/CP.7 are still relevant, current and emerging areas in the 
context of the Convention and the Paris Agreement should also  be taken into account in the 
further implementation of the capacity -building framework under the Convention;  
3. Welcomes  the Durban Forum on capacity -building as one of the key modalities that 
have enhanced progress in implementing the capacity -building fra mework under th e 
Convention, including by taking forward recommendations from the third comprehensive 
review of the implementation of the capacity -building framework under the Convention;  
4. Also welcomes  the wide range of capacity -building activities undert aken by 
constit uted bodies under the Convention, the increased coherence and collaboration between 
bodies, the practice of building and improving on previous work where useful, and the 
collaboration with relevant stakeholders;  
5. Emphasizes  the value of stre ngthening the p articipation of relevant stakeholders, 
including non -State actors, in undertaking capacity -building activities;  
6. Notes  that, while progress has been made, gaps and needs remain in addressing the 
priority issues identified in the capacity -building framework under the Convention;  
7. Invites  Parties to foster networking and enhance their collaboration with academia and 
research centres with a view to promoting individual, institutional and systemic capacity -
building through education, training and p ublic awareness ; 
8. Notes  the importance of sharing examples of best practice and lessons learned among 
Parties and capacity -building practitioners;  
9. Emphasizes  the importance of building long -term capacity in developing countries, 
including by promoting stro ng domestic ena bling environments;  
10. Notes  that monitoring and reviewing the impacts of capacity -building remains 
challenging and needs to be conducted in specific contexts to better assess progress and 
evaluate the effectiveness of capacity -building activi ties;  
11. Emphasiz es the importance of continuing to identify and disseminate lessons learned 
to enhance the implementation of capacity -building activities, including through the Durban 
Forum and the Paris Committee on Capacity -building;  
12. Invites  Parties to cooperate in ord er to enhance the capacity of developing countries 
to implement the Convention and the Paris Agreement, and also invites  Parties, as 
appropriate, and other stakeholders to continue to provide support for capacity -building 
action s in developing countries;  
13. Concludes  the fourth comprehensive review of the implementation of the capacity -
building framework under the Convention;  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.2  
 9 14. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to develop terms of reference for 
the fifth comprehensive r eview of the implementation of the capacity -building framework 
under the Convention at its sixtieth session (June 2024) for consideration and adoption by 
the Conference of the Parties at its thirtieth session (November 2024);  
15. Also requests  the Subsidiary B ody for Implementation to in itiate the fifth 
comprehensive review of the implementation of the capacity -building framework under the 
Convention at its sixty -second session (2025) with a view to the Conference  of the Parties 
concluding it at its thirty -first session (2025).   
7th plena ry meeting  
12 December 2019  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.2  
10    Decision 11/CP.25  
   Matters relating to the Standing Committee on Finance  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  Articles 4 and 11 of the Convention,  
Also recalling  decisions 12/CP.2, 1/CP.16, paragraph 112, and 2/CP.17, p aragraphs 
120–121, as well as decisions 5/CP.18, 5/CP.19, 7/CP.19, 6/CP.20, 6/CP.21, 8/CP.22, 
7/CP.23, 8/CP.23, 4/CP.24 and 5/CMA.2,  
1. Takes note of the report of the Standing Committee on Finance to the Conference of 
the Parties at its twenty -fifth session and the recommendations  contained therein;1  
2. Endorses  the workplan2 of the Standing Committee  on Finance for 2020  and underlines  
the importance of the Standing Committee on Finance focusing its work in 2020 in accordance 
with its current mandates;  
3. Notes  the outcomes of the discussions of the Standing Committee on Finance on the 
2020 Biennial Assessment and Overview of Climate Finan ce Flows and the report on the 
determination of the needs of developing country Parties related to implementing the 
Convention a nd the Paris Agreement as well as the respective workplans, outreach activities 
and indicative timelines for preparation;3 
4. Expre sses its appreciation  to the Governments of Australia, Belgium, Germany, 
Norway, the Philippines and Switzerland for their finan cial contributions to support the work 
of the Standing Committee on Finance;  
5. Welcomes the 2019 Forum of the Standing Committee on Finance, on the topic of 
climate finance and sustainable cities, with a focus  on enhancing understanding of how to 
accelerate  the mobilization and delivery of climate finance for the development of sustainable 
cities, and takes note  of the summary repor t4 on the Forum;  
6. Expresses its gratitude  to the Governments of Australia, Lebanon and Norway, as 
well as to the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia, the Union 
for the Mediterranean, and the Islamic Development  Bank, for their financial, administrative 
and substantive support, which contributed to the success of the 2019 Forum of the Standing 
Committee on  Finance ;  
7. Welcomes  the decision of the Standing Committee on Finance on the topic of its 2020 
Forum, which w ill be financing nature -based solutions ; 
8. Notes  the inputs of the Standing Committee  on Finance to the technical paper on the 
elaboration of the sou rces of and modalities for accessing financial support for addressing 
loss and damage;5 
9. Encourages  the Standi ng Committee on Finance to present, to the extent possible, 
disaggregated information in relation to, inter alia, mapping data availability and gap s by 
sector, assessing climate finance flows and presenting information on the determination of 
the needs  of developing country Parties related to implementing the Convention and the Paris 
Agreement;  
10. Underscores the important contribution of the Standing Committee on Finance in 
relation to the operational definitions of climate finance , and invites  Parties to su bmit via the 
                                                           
 1 FCCC/CP/2019/10−FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/3 . 
 2 FCCC/CP/2019/10−FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/3 , annex V.  
 3  FCCC/CP/2019/10−FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/3 , annexes II and III, respectively.  
 4 FCCC/CP/2019/10 /Add.1 −FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/3 /Add.1 . 
 5 FCCC/TP/2019/1.  
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.2  
 11 submission portal,6 by 30 April 2020, their views on the operational definitions of climate 
finance for consideration by the Standing Committee on Finance in order to enhance its 
technical work on this matter in the context of preparing its 20 20 Biennial Assessment and 
Overview of Climate Finance Flows;  
11. Takes note  of the strategic outreach plan7 of the Standing Committee on Finance on 
enhancing stakeholder engagement;  
12. Encourages  the Standing Committee on Finance, in implementing its strategic 
outreach plan, to build on existing efforts to reach out to developing country Parties and 
relevant developing country stakeholders when generating  data and information for the 
determination  of the needs of developing country Parties related to implementing the 
Convention and the Paris Agreement;  
13. Looks forward  to the inputs that may be provided by the Executive Committee of the 
Warsaw International M echanism for Loss and Damage associated wit h Climate Change 
Impacts to the work of the Standing Committee on Finance  for its consideration in preparing 
elements of draft guidance for the operating entities;  
14. Encourages the Standing Committee on Finance to c ontinue to enhance its efforts 
towards ensu ring gender -responsiveness in implementing  its workplan;  
15. Emphasizes the importance of the transparency of the proceedings and decision -
making processes of the Standing Committee on Finance ; 
16. Takes note of the appo intment of Standing Committee on Finance fo cal points to liaise 
with the other constituted bodies under the Convention  and the Paris Agreement;  
17. Decides  to initiate the review of the functions8 of the Standing Committee on Finance 
at the twenty -seventh sess ion of the Conference of the Parties (Novem ber 2021), noting 
decision 5/CMA.2, with a view to concluding it at its twenty -eighth session (November 
2022);  
18. Requests the Standing Committee on Finance to report to the Conference of the Parties 
at its twenty -sixth session (November 2020) on progress  in implementing its workplan;  
19. Also requests  that the actions of the Standing Committee on Finance called for in this 
decisi on be undertaken subject to the availability of financial  resources.  
8th plenary meeting  
15 D ecember 2019  
 
                                                           
 6 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/su bmissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx . 
 7 FCCC/CP/2019/10−FCCC/PA/CMA/2019/3 , annex IV.   
 8 Pursuant to d ecision 2/CP.17, annex VI, para . 10. FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.2  
12    Decision 12/CP.25  
  Report of the Green Climate Fund to the Conference of the 
Parties and guidance to the Green Climate Fund  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling decision 3/CP .17, annex,  
 Also r ecalling decision 10/CP.22, paragraph 5,  
1. Welcomes  the report of the Green Climate Fund to the Conference of the Parties at its 
twenty -fifth session and its addendum,1 including the list of actions taken by the Board of the 
Green Climate Fund (hereinafter referred to as the Board ) in response to g uidance received 
from the Conference of the Parties;  
2. Also welcomes  the progress of the Green Climate Fund  in 2019 on the following, 
including in relation to guidance provided by the Conference of the Parties : 
(a) The increase in the number of project proposals  approve d, which brings t he 
total amount approv ed by the Board  to USD 5.6 billion to support the implementation of 124 
adaptation and mitigation projects and programmes in 105 developing countries;  
(b) The increase in the number of entities accredited by the B oard, which bring s 
the total number of accredited entities to 95, of which 56 are direct access entities;  
(c) The adoption  of procedures for adopting decisions in the event that all efforts 
at reaching consensus have been exhausted , as specified in  the Governi ng Instr ument  for the 
Green Climate Fund ; 
(d) The adoption  of a revised strategy for the Readiness and Preparatory Support 
Programme;  
(e) The adoption of the policy on the restructuring and cancellation of projects and 
programmes ; 
(f) The adoption of the  updated  Gende r Policy  and Action Plan 2020 –2023 , in 
particular the support modality for national designated authorities and focal points to 
implement the policy and action plan, as well as support for direct access entities from  the 
project preparation facility ;2 
(g) The a doption of the workplan of the Board for 2020 –2023 , which  establishes 
a regular policy implementation, learning and review cycle;  
(h) The adoption of the  Green Climate  Fund’s policy on co-financing ; 
(i) The f orward -looking performance review of the Green Climate F und; 
(j) The continued collaboration between the Green Climate Fund , the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network and the Technology Executive Committee ; 
(k) The collaboration between the Green Climate Fund, the Adaptation Committee 
and the Least Developed Countries Expert  Group;  
(l) The steps agreed at the 24th meeting of the Board to finalize, at the 25th meeting  
of the Board , the draft  Strategic Plan 2020 –2023;  
(m) Policies related to i ntegrity, notably the polic y on the protection from sexual 
exploitation, sexual abuse  and sexual harassment and the standard on anti -money -laundering 
and countering the financing of terrorism ; 
                                                           
 1  FCCC/CP/2019/3 and Add.1.  
 2  See Green Climate Fund Board document GCF/B.24/12 , para. (d). FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.2  
 13 3. Further w elcomes  the pledges made by 28 contributors and the successful conclusion 
of the first formal replenishment process of the Green Climate Fund,  resul ting in a nominal 
pledge of US D 9.66 billion and a notional credit of US D 118.47 million that may be earned 
in the event all contributors make early encashment ; 
4. Encourages  further pledges and contributions towards  the first formal replenishment  
perio d;3 
5. Also encourages  contributing countries  to confirm their pledges to the Green Climate 
Fund in the form of fully executed contribution agreements  or arrangements as soon as 
possible;  
6. Reiterate s the request  to the Green Climate Fund to accelerate the disbursement of 
funds for already approved projects , including for readiness support, and provide detailed 
information on disbursement  levels and measures taken in this regard in its report to the 
Conference of the Parties ; 
7. Welcomes  the a pproval of the Board’s  four-year work plan and requests  the Board to 
complete its work on closing policy gaps , streamlining  and simplifying approval processes, 
including for readiness support and national adaptation plans,  and addressing the review of 
the a ccreditation framework  as soon  as possible  so as  not to disrupt the project and 
programme approval cycle during the first formal replenishment;  
8. Encourages the Board of the Green Climate Fund to continue its efforts to ensure that 
the Green Climate Fund enj oys privileges and imm unities ; 
9. Takes note of the engagement of the President of the Conference of the Parties at its 
twenty -fifth session with the Secretary -General of the United Nations on the matter of 
granting privileges and immunities for the Green Cli mate Fund and its offi cials through a 
possible institutional linkage between the United Nations and the Green Climate Fund, and 
requests  the President to report on this engagement at its twenty -sixth session (November 
2020);  
10. Decides to continue its consideration of th e matter in paragraph 9 above at its twenty -
sixth session ; 
11. Invites  Parties  to submit to the secretariat their views and recommendations on 
elements to be taken into account in developing guidance for the Board via the submission 
portal4 no later than 10 weeks prior to the twenty -sixth  session of the Conference of the 
Parties;  
12. Requests  the Standing Committee on Finance to take into consideration the 
submissions referred to in paragraph 11 above when preparing its draft guidance to the Boar d 
for consideration by the Conference of the Parties and the Conference of the Parties serving 
as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement ; 
13. Also requests  the Board  to include in its annual report to the Conference of the Parties  
information on the  steps it has taken to implem ent the guidance provided in this decision;  
14. Takes note  of decision  6/CMA.2 and decides  to transmit to the Green Climate Fund 
the guidance from the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Paris Agr eement  contained  in paragraph s 15–21 below , in accordance with decision 1/CP.21, 
paragraph  61; 
15. Welcomes  the report of the Green Climate Fund to the Conference of the Parties at its 
twenty -fifth session and its addendum, including the list of actions taken by the Board in 
response to g uidance received from the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting  of 
the Parties to the Paris Agreement;  
                                                           
 3  In accordance with Green Climate Fund Board document  GCF/B. 24/02. 
 4  https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx . 
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.2  
14  16. Also welcomes  the Board’s decision5 confirming that the current Green Climate Fund 
modalities enable support for the preparation and implement ation of nationally determined 
contributions and adaptation -related elemen ts of the Paris Agreement;  
17. Recalls  Article 7, paragraph 1, of the Paris Agreement, in which Parties established a 
global goal on adaptation for enhancing adaptive capacity, strengthe ning resilience and 
reducing vulnerability to climate change;  
18. Takes note  of the encouragement of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement6 for the Green Climate Fund, among others, to 
continue channelling s upport to developing country Parties for the implementation of their 
adapt ation plans and actions in accordance with the priorities and needs outlined in their 
adaptation communication and/or nationally determined contributions;  
19. Encourages  the Green Climat e Fund to continue to enhance its support for adaptation 
and requests the Green Climate Fund to:  
(a) Swiftly conclude its work on guidance on the approach and scope for providing 
support to adaptation activities;7  
(b) Continue to enhance its support for the imple mentation of national adaptation 
plans, in line with Board decisions on en hancing readiness programming;8  
20. Also e ncourages  the Green Climate Fund to continue to collaborate with the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network and the Technology Executive Committ ee with a view to 
both strengthening cooperative action on technology development and transfer at different 
stages of the technology cycle and achieving a balance between support for mitigation and 
support for adaptation;  
21. Invites  the Board of the Green Cli mate Fund to continue providing financial resources 
for activities relevant to averting, minimizing and addressing loss an d damage in developing 
country Parties, to the extent consistent with the existing investment , results framework and 
funding windows a nd structures  of the Green Climate Fund , and to facilitate efficient access 
in this regard, and in this context to take in to account the strategic workstreams of the five -
year rolling workplan of the Executive Committee  of the Warsaw International Mechanis m 
for Loss and Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts.9 
8th plenary meeting  
15 December 2019
                                                           
 5  Green Climate Fund Board decision GCF/B.13/10 . 
 6  Decision 9/CMA.1, para . 21. 
 7  Pursuant to Green Climate Fund Board docume nt GCF/B.1 7/10. 
 8  Green Climate Fund  Board decisions GCF/ B.22/10 and GCF/ B.22/11.  
 9  See document FCCC/SB/2017/1/Add.1, annex . FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.2  
 15   Decision 13/CP.25  
  Report of the Global Environment Facility to the Conference 
of the Parties and guidance to the Global Environment 
Facility  
The Confere nce of the Parties , 
1. Welcomes the report of the Global  Environment Facility to the Conference of the 
Parties at its twenty -fifth session,1 including the responses of the Global Environment Facility 
to previous guidance from the Conference of the Parties;  
2. Also welcomes the work undertaken by the Global Environment Facility during its 
reporting period (1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019), including:   
(a) The approval of climate change projects and programmes approved during the 
reporting period under the Global Environm ent Facility Trust Fund, the Least Developed 
Countries Fund and the Special Climate Change Fund;  
(b) The approval of minimum requirements fo r Global Environment Facility Trust 
Fund agencies on anti -money -laundering and countering the financing of terrorism;2  
(c) The composition of the Private Sector Advisory Group;3  
(d) The implementation of the gender equality policy4 and the approval of the 
gender  implementation strategy;5 
(e) The approval of the policy on monitoring6 and the evaluation policy;7  
3. Welcomes with appreci ation the contributions made by developed country Parties to 
the Least Developed Countries Fund during the reporting period, amounting to  USD 184 
million,8 and the contribution  made by Switzerland to the Special Climate Change Fund 
during the reporting per iod amounting to USD 3.3 million , and encourages  additional 
voluntary financial contributions to these funds to provide support for adapt ation;   
4. Invites  the Global Environment Facility to continue its efforts to minimize the time 
between the approval of pr oject concepts, the development and approval of the related 
projects, and the disbursement of funds by its implementing/executing agencies to the 
recipi ent countries of those projects;  
5. Urges  the Global Environment Facility to continue to report to the Conf erence of the 
Parties any change or update to the eligibility criteria for accessing the Global Environment 
Facility resources, including the System for  Transparent Allocation of Resources country 
allocation, in its future reports to the Conference of the Parties;  
6. Encourages  the Global Environment Facility, as part of the overall performance study 
of its seventh replenishment, to analyse any challenges fa ced and lessons learned by the 
Global Environment Facility and its implementing agencies in applying the  updated policy 
on co -financing of the Global Environment Facility and to report back to the Conference of 
the Parties on the outcomes of the study;  
7. Also encourages  the Global Environment Facility, in collaboration with the Global 
Environment Facility coun try focal points, to promote the use of technology needs 
                                                           
 1  FCCC/CP/2019/5 and Ad d.1.  
 2  See Global Environment Facility  document GEF/C.55/09 . 
 3  See Global Environment Facility  document GEF/C.56/Inf.05 . 
 4  See Global Environment Facility  document GEF/C.53/04 . 
 5  See Global Environment Facility  document GEF/C.54/06 . 
 6  See Global Environment Facility  document GEF/C.56/03/Rev.01, annex I.  
 7  See Global Environment Facility  docum ent GEF/ME/C.56/02/Rev.01 , section 2.  
 8  Contributions were made by Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden and 
Switzerland.  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add .2 
16  assessments to facilitate the financing and implementation of technology actions prioritized 
by countries in their technology needs assessments, within the scope of its mandate and 
operational modali ties;  
8. Invites  the Global Environment Facility to consider:  
(a) Exploring ways to include in the fourth phase of the global project on 
technology needs ass essments the least developed countries and small island developing 
States that have never undertaken a t echnology needs assessment and have not been included 
in the fourth phase;  
(b) Relevant recommendations contained in the report prepared by the Technology 
Executive Committee on the updated evaluation of the Poznan strategic programme on 
technology transfer,9 within the scope of its mandate and its operational modalities ; 
9. Also invites  the Global Environment Facility, in accordance with its existing mandates 
and in collaboration with the Green Climate Fund, to report on lessons learned in supporting 
developing c ountries in collecting and managing information and data on adaptation;  
10. Requests  the Global Environment Facility, in administering the Least Developed 
Countries Fund, to continue facilitating the smooth transition of countries graduating from 
least develop ed country status by continuing to provide approved funding through the Least 
Developed Countries Fund until the completion of projects approved by the Least Developed 
Countries Fund Council prior to those countries’ graduation from least developed country  
status;  
11. Takes  note of decision 7/CMA.2 and decides  to transmit to the Global Environment 
Facility the guidance from the Conference of the Parties servi ng as the meeting of the Parties 
to the Paris Agreement contained  in paragraphs 12 –13 below, in accordan ce with decision 
1/CP.21, paragraph 61;  
12. Welcomes  the report of the Global Environment Facility to the Conference of the 
Parties at its twenty -fifth sess ion,10 including the list of actions taken by the Global 
Environment Facility in response to the guidance  received from the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement;  
13. Requests  the Global Environment Facility, as an operating entity of the Financial 
Mechanism, under its seventh replenishment and throughout its reple nishment cycles, to 
adequately support developing country Parties in preparing their first and subsequent biennial 
transparency reports in accordance with Article 13, paragraph s 14–15, of the Paris Agreement  
and decision 18/CMA.1;  
14. Invites  Parties to submit  to the secretariat via the submission portal,11 no later than 10 
weeks prior to the twenty -sixth session of the Con ference of the Parties  (November 2020) , 
their views and recommendations on elements to be taken into account in developing 
guidance to the Gl obal Environment Facility;  
15. Requests  the Standing Committee on Finance to take into consideration the 
submissions re ferred to in paragraph 14 above when preparing its draft guidance to the Global 
Environment Facility for consideration by the Conference of t he Parties and the Conference 
of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement;  
16. Also req uests  the Global Environment Facility to include in its annual report to the 
Conference of the Parties information on the steps that it has t aken to implement the guidance 
provided in this decision.  
8th plenary meeting  
15 December 2019  
 
                                                           
 9 FCCC/SBI/2019/7.  
 10  As footnote 1 above.  
 11 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx .  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.2  
 17   Decision 14/CP.25  
  Enhancing climate technology development and transfer 
through the Technology Mechanism  
 The Conference of the Parties , 
 Recalling decisio ns 2/CP.17, 1/CP.21, 12/CP.21, 15/CP.22, 21/CP.22, 3/CP.23, 
13/CP.23, 15/CP.23, 12/CP.24 and 13/CP.24,  
1. Welcomes the joint annual report of the Technology Executive Committee and the 
Climate Technology Centre and Network for 20191 and their progress in fa cilitating effective 
implementation of the Technology Mechanism;  
2. Also welcomes  the collaboration of the Technology Executive Committee and the 
Climate Technology Centre and Network, including through the organization of back -to-back 
meetings between the Te chnology Executive Committee and the Advisory Board of the 
Climate Technology Centre and Network and regio nal technical expert meetings, and invites  
them to enhance their collaboration and to ensure the provision of feedback b etween them;  
3. Further welcomes the coherent approach of the Technology Executive Committee and 
the Climate Technology Centre and Network to developing and enhancing their monitoring 
and evaluation systems, and encourages  them to use these systems to improve  reporting on 
the outputs and impacts of their work and facilitate the achievement thereof;  
4. Invites  the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Centre and 
Network to continue undertaking joint communication and outreach activities to ensu re 
coherent communication unde r the Technology Mechanism;  
5. Welcomes  the engagement and collaboration of the Technology Executive Committee 
and the Climate Technology Centre and Network with the operating entities of the Financial 
Mechanism and encourages  their continued and enhanced co llaboration;  
I. Activities and performance of the Technology Executive 
Committee in 2019  
6. Welcomes  the rolling workplan of the Technology Executive Committee for  
2019 –20222 and the progress of the Committee in advanci ng the implementation thereof, 
including i n the areas of innovation, implementation, enabling environment and  
capacity -building, collaboration and stakeholder engagement, and support;  
7. Invites Parties and relevant stakeholders, in planning and implementing  action related 
to technology development and transfer, to consider and build on the recommendations of 
the Technology Executive Committee on ways forward and actions to be taken on the basis 
of the outcomes of the technical expert meetings on mitigation i n 2019 as well as the key 
messages of the Committee for 2019 on endogenous capacities and technologies;3 
8. Notes with appreciation  that the Technology Executive Committee adopted an 
approach to integrating gender considerations into its rolling workplan for 2019 –2022, and 
encourages  the Technology E xecutive Committee to continue its efforts in this regard and  
report on this matter;4  
9. Welcomes  the collaboration of the Technology Executive Committee with the 
Executive Committee of the Warsaw International Mecha nism for Loss and Damage 
associated with C limate Change Impacts in preparing a joint policy brief on technologies for 
                                                           
 1 FCCC/SB/2019/4.  
 2 Available at https://bit.ly/36ESdPG . 
 3 Contained in document FCCC/SB/2019/4.  
 4 Pursuant to decision 21/CP. 22, para . 14.  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.2  
18  averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage in coastal zones, and looks forward to 
the completion of the policy brief in 2020;  
10. Takes note of the Technology Executive Commit tee’s efforts to reach out to regional 
stakeholders and national designated entities, including through the participation of 
representatives of the Technology Executive Committee in regional forums of the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network;  
11. Invites  the Technology Executive Committee to continue the efforts referred to in 
paragraph 10 above  to enhance the visibility of and seek feedback on its work , and requests  
the Technology Executive Committee to report on such efforts ; 
12. Notes the initiative of the Tech nology Executive Committee, under its rolling 
workplan for 2019 –2022, to promote innovative approaches to upscaling adaptation 
technologies , including through the organization  of an in -session technology day in 2020 ; 
II. Activities and performance of the Clima te Technology Centre 
and Network in 2019  
13. Welcomes the appointment by the United Nations Environment Programme, as host 
of the Climate Technology Centre, of Rose Mwebaza as the  new Director of the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network;  
14. Expresses its appreci ation  to the former Director of the Climate Technology Centre 
and Network, Jukka Uosukainen, for his leadership in ensuring the full operationalization of 
the Climate Technolo gy Centre and Network;  
15. Welcomes  the programme of work of the Climate Technology C entre and Network 
for 2019 –20225 and the progress in implementing the activities therein, including multi -
country and regional approaches to delivering its services;  
16. Also welcomes the progress of the Climate Technology Centre and Network in 
collaborating w ith the Green Climate Fund and  encourages  the Climate Technology Centre 
and Network to continue this collaboration, including under the Green Climate Fund 
Readiness and Prepar atory Support Programme, for, inter alia , developing and updating 
technology need s assessments and technology action plans to  support implementation of 
nationally determined contributions;  
17. Also encourages the Climate Technology Centre and Network to contin ue 
implementing plans and actions in response to the recommendations from the ind ependent 
review of the effective implementation of the Climate Technology Centre and Network;6 
18. Welcomes  with appreciation  the collaboration of the Climate Technology Centre an d 
Network with relevant stakeholders , including the private sector,  in implementi ng their 
activities, and  requests the Climate Technology Centre and Network to enhance this 
collaboration ; 
19. Invites the Climate Technology Centre and Network to enhance engagem ent with 
Network members, including through new and innovative approaches, and to  include 
information on this matter in the joint annual report of the Technology Executive Committee 
and the Climate Technology Centre and Network for 2020;  
20. Notes with appreci ation  the continued efforts of the Climate Technology Centre and 
Network in mains treaming gender consideration in its operations and technical assistance 
activities and encourages  the Climate Technology Centre and Network to continue these 
efforts and  to report thereon ; 
                                                           
 5 Available at https://www.ctc -n.org/sites/www.ctc -n.org/files/ctcn_programme_of_work_2019 -
2022.pdf . 
 6 Contained in document FCCC/CP/2017/ 3. FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.2  
 19 21. Also notes with appreciation  the ongoing efforts of the Climate Te chnology Centre 
and Network to mobilize resources for implementing its functions, including pro bono and 
in-kind contributions;  
22. Requests  the Climate Technology Centre and Network to analyse its experience and 
lessons l earned with regard to pro bono and in -kind contributions , including with a view to 
increasing such contributions,  and to include information thereon in the joint annual report 
of the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Centre and Netw ork 
for 2020;  
23. Expresses  its appreciati on for the financial contributions provided by Parties to 
support the work of the Climate Technology Centre and Network to date ; 
24. Notes with concern  the challenge of securing sustainable financial resources for the 
Climate Technology Centre and Network;  
25. Recalls the memorandum of understanding between the Conference of the Parties and 
the United Nations Environment Programme regarding the hosting of the Climate 
Technology Centre, as contained in annex I to decision 14/CP.18, and invites  the United 
Nations Env ironment Programme, as the host of the Climate Technology Centre, to develop 
and implement plans to financially support the operation of the Climate Technology Centre 
and Network so as to facilitate its effective functioning, in accordance with this memora ndum 
of understanding ; 
26. Requests  the Climate Technology Centre and Network  to: 
(a) Enhance its resource mobilization efforts and further diversify the sources, 
including by exploring new and innovative ways, to  support its operation in order to 
effectively impl ement its programme of work;  
(b) Report on the activities and plans  referred to in paragraph 26(a) above  in the 
joint annual reports of the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology 
Centre and Network.  
7th plenary meeting  
12 December 2019  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.2  
20     Decision 15/CP.25  
  Terms of reference for the review of the Doha work 
programme on Article 6 of the Convention  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  decision 17/CP.22 and decision 17/CMA.1 , in which it was decided that 
efforts related to the implementat ion of Article 6 of the Convention and Article 12 of the 
Paris Agreement should be referred to as Action for Climate Empowerment,  
Reaffirming  the importance of all elements of Article 6 of th e Convention and of 
Article 12 of the Paris Agreement – educatio n, training, public awareness, public 
participation and public access to information, and international cooperation – for the 
implementation of the ultimate objective of the Convention and the  Paris Agreement, 
respectively,  
Also reaffirming the key role th at a broad range of stakeholders, inter alia, national 
governments, regions as applicable, cities, education and cultural institutions, museums, the 
private sector, intergovernmental organizat ions, non -governmental organizations, 
international organization s, decision makers, scientists, the media, teachers, youth, women 
and indigenous peoples, play in ensuring Action for Climate Empowerment,  
1. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation, at i ts fifty -second session (June 
2020), to launch the review of the  implementation of the Doha work programme on Article 
6 of the Convention on the basis of the terms of reference contained in the annex, and to 
consider future work to enhance the implementati on of Article 6 of the Convention and 
Article 12 of the Paris Ag reement , following the review of the Doha work programme, and 
to prepare a draft decision for consideration and adoption at the twenty -sixth session of the 
Conference of the Parties (November 2020);  
2. Invites  Parties, observer organizations and other stakeho lders to submit, via the 
submission portal1 by 15 February 2020, information on steps taken to implement the Doha 
work programme and in relation to Action for Climate Empowerment, including ac tivities 
and results, best practices, lessons learned and emergi ng gaps and needs, as well as 
recommendations and views on future work to enhance the implementation of Article 6 of 
the Convention and Article 12 of the Paris Agreement;  
3. Also invites  United N ations organizations, in particular the members of the United 
Nations Alliance on Climate Change Education, Training and Public Awareness, observer  
organizations  and other stakeholders to submit, via the submission portal2 by 15 February 
2020, information on their activities to support the implementation of the Doha wo rk 
programme and Action for Climate Empowerment, as well as recommendations and views 
on future work to enhance the implementation of Article 6 of the Convention and Article 12 
of the Paris Ag reement;  
4. Further invites  Parties and observer  organizations  to submit via the submission portal 
by 15 February 2020, their views on the agenda for the 8th in-session Dialogue on Action for 
Climate Empowerment, which will advance the discussions on ways to enhance the 
implementation of Article 6 of the Convention and Ar ticle 12 of the Paris Agreement, 
following the review of the Doha work programme;  
5. Requests  the secretariat to organize the 8th in-session Dialogue on Action for Climate 
Empowerment in 2020 to advance the discussions on recommendations and views on future 
work to enhance the implementation of Article 6 of the Convention and Article 12 of the 
Paris Agreement;  
                                                           
 1  https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx . 
 2  As footnote 1 abo ve. FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.2  
 21 6. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in the annex;  
7. Requests  that the ac tions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.2  
22  Annex  
Terms of reference for the review of the implementation of 
the Doha work programme on Article 6 of the Convention  
I. Mandate  
1. At its e ighteenth session, the Conference of the Parties (COP) adopted the eight -year 
Doha work programme on Article 6 of the Convention and decided that it would be reviewed 
in 2020, with an intermediate review of progress in 2016, to evaluate its effectiveness, 
identify a ny emerging gaps and needs, and inform any decisions on improving the 
effectiveness of the work programme, as appropriate.1 
2. At the same session, the COP requested the secretariat to prepare reports on the 
progress made by Parties in implementing Article 6 of the Convention based on information 
contained in national communications, reports on the annual in -session Dialogue on Action 
for Climate Empowerment2 and other sources of information, including a report on good 
practices of stakeholder partic ipation in  implementing Article 6 activities.3 The report on 
progress made in implementing the Doha work programme4 was issued for the intermediate 
progress review in 2016.  
3. The COP was invited5 by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of th e 
Parties to the Paris Agreement to also include efforts related to the implementation of Article 
12 of the Paris Agreement when reviewing the Doha work programme in accordance with 
decision 15/CP.18.  
II. Objectives  
4. With a view to encouraging improvement based  on experience, the objectives of the 
review of the implementation of the Doha work programme are:  
(a) To take stock of the progress made in the implementation of the Doha work 
programme and Action for Climate Empowerment to date, noting that this work is stil l 
ongoing;  
(b) To evaluate  its effectiveness and identify essential needs, emerging gaps in and 
barriers to the implementation of the Doha work programme;  
(c) To identify good practices and lessons learned with a view to their 
dissemination, promotion and replicat ion, as appropriate;  
(d) To identify recommendations and possible further actions on enhancing the 
implementation of Article 6 of the Convention and Article 12 of the Paris Agreement, with 
regard to future work on Action for Climate Empowerment, following the  review of the Doha 
work programme.  
III. Information sources  
5. Information for the review of the Doha work programme should be drawn from, inter 
alia: 
                                                           
 1  Decision 15/CP.18, para s. 1–2.  
 2  Reports available at https://unfccc.int/topics/education -and-outreach/the -big-picture/education -and-
outreach -in-the-negotiations/negotiations -on-article -6-of-the-convention -decisions -and-reports . 
 3  Decision 15/CP.18, annex, para . 35(a).  
 4  FCCC/SBI/2016/6 . 
 5 Decision 17/CM A.1, para. 2. 
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.2  
 23 (a) Reports  and outcomes of the annual in -session Dialogue on Action for Climate 
Empowerment, which ha s been conduct ed under the Doha work programme since 2013;  
(b) Information submitted by Parties, observer  organizations  and other 
stakeholders in response to the invitation s contained in paragraphs 2 –3 of this decision;  
(c) The outcomes of the Action for Climate Empowerment wor kshop held at the 
forty -eighth session of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation (SBI)6 and the Action for 
Climate Empowerment youth forum organized on 29 April 2018;7 
(d) National communications and other relevant national reports;  
(e) Relevant information and re source materials from United Nations 
organizations, in particular the members of the United Nations Alliance on Climate Change 
Education, Training and Public Awareness;  
(f) Relevant information developed under Article 12 of the Paris Agreement, 
including the i ntegration of Action for Climate Empowerment into climate change policies, 
as well as information on the development and implementation of national strategies on 
Action for Climate Empowerment.8  
IV. Modalities of review and expected outcomes  
6. Drawing upon the information sources listed in paragraph 5 above, the secretariat will 
prepare for consideration at SBI 52 (June 2020):  
(a) A synthesis report on the progress made and effectiveness, as well as emerging 
gaps, needs and recommendations from Parties, observer  organizations  and other 
stakeholders, in  implementing the Doha work programme and Action for Climate 
Empowerment;  
(b) An information note , presenting options and ways , on future work to enhance 
the implementation of Article 6 of the Convention and Article 12 of t he Paris Agreement 
following the review of the Doha work programme.  
7. In its review of the implementation of the Doha work programme, SBI 52 will 
consider the docum ents listed in paragraph 6 above and any other information relevant to the 
completion of the review, including the information referred to in paragraph 5 above.  
7th plenary meeting  
12 December 2019  
                                                           
 6  See https://unfccc.int/sites/default/files/resource/Action%20for%20Climate%20Empowerment%  
20Workshop%20outcomes .pdf.  
 7  See https://unfccc.int/sites/default/files/resource/180505_Outcomes%20AYF%20 -%20Final.pdf . 
 8  Decision 17/CMA .1, paras . 5–6. FCCC/CP/201 9/13/Add.2  
24    Decision 16/CP.25  
  Dates and venues of future sessions  
 The Conference of the Parties , 
 Recalling  Article 7, paragraph 4, of the Convention,  
 Also recalling  United Nations General Assembly resolution 40/243 of 18 December 
1985 on the pattern of conferences,  
 Further recalling  rule 22, paragraph 1, of the draft rules of procedure being applied 
regardin g the rotation of the office of President among th e five regional groups,  
I. Dates and venues of future sessions  
A. 2020  
1. Accepts with appreciation  the offer of the Government of the United Kingdom of 
Great Britain and Northern Ireland to host the twenty -sixth session of the Conference of the 
Parties, the sixtee nth session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the third session of the Conference of the Parties serving 
as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement from Monday, 9 November, to Friday,  
20 November 2020;  
2. Welcomes the partnership of the Government of the United Kingdom with t he 
Government of Italy, which will host the preparatory events for the sessions;  
3. Requests  the Executive Secretary to continue consultations with the Government of 
the United Kingdom and to negotiate and finalize a Host Country Agreement for convening 
the sessions, in conformity with United Nations General Assembly resolution 40/243 and in 
compliance with the provisions of United Nations administrative instruction ST/AI /342, with 
a view to concluding and signing the Host Country Agreement no later than the f ifty-second 
sessions of the subsidiary bodies (June 2020) so as to allow for its prompt implementation;  
4. Also requests the Executive Secretary to provide the host coun try with technical 
support and guidance on UNFCCC policies and requirements, taking into a ccount the issues 
raised by Parties regarding the organization of such sessions, and to report back regularly to 
the Bureau;  
B. 2021  
5. Notes  that, in keeping with the prin ciple of rotation among the regional groups, the 
President of the twenty -seventh session o f the Conference of the Parties, the seventeenth 
session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol and the fourth s ession of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Paris  Agreement would come from the African States;  
6. Invites  Parties to undertake further consultations on the hosting of the sessions 
referred to in paragraph 5 above;  
7. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation, at its fifty -second session, to 
consider the  issue of the host of the sessions referred to in paragraph 5 above and to 
recommend a draft decision on the matter for consideration and adoption by the Conference 
of the Parties at its twenty -sixth session (November 2020);  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.2  
 25 II. Calendar of meetings of the Con vention, Kyoto Protocol and 
Paris Agreement bodies  
8. Adopts the following dates for the sessional periods in 2024:  
(a) First sessional period: Monday, 3 June, to Thursday, 13 June;  
(b) Second sessional period: Monday, 11 November, to Friday, 22 November.  
8th plenary meeting  
15 December 2019FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.2  
26    Decision 17/CP.25  
  Programme budget for the biennium 2020 –2021  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling paragraphs 4 and 7(a) of the fina ncial procedures for the Conference of the 
Parties, its subsidiary bodies and the secretariat,1  
Noting with appreciation  the methodology applied by the secretariat in developing 
the budget for the biennium 2020 –2021, including the early engagement with Parties,2  
Having considered the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2020 –2021 
submitted by the Executive Secretary,3  
1. Approves  the programme budget for the biennium 2020 –2021 , amounting to 
EUR  59,847,785 , for the purposes specified  in table 1;  
2. Requ ests the secretariat, in implementing its work programme for the biennium 2020 –
2021 based on the programme budget  approved in paragraph 1 above, to seek to allocate 
adequate resources for constituted bodies in support of their response to the mandates give n 
by the governing bodies, and for the mandated activities under the current transparency 
arrangements;  
3. Also r equests the Executive Secretary to refine the budget methodology and its 
application for future bienniums with a view to enhancing the transparenc y of the proposed 
budget documentation and to continue engaging Parties early in the budget preparation 
process;  
4. Notes with appreciation the annual  contribution of EUR 7 66,938 of the Host  
Government  to the core budget ; 
5. Approves the staffing table ( see table 2) for the programme budget;  
6. Notes  that the programme budget contains elements relating to the Convention and 
the Paris Agreement as well as to the Kyoto Protocol;  
7. Adopts the indicative scale of contributions contained in the annex;  
8. Notes that the indica tive scale of contributions covers 90 per cent of the contributions 
specified in table 1;  
9. Invites  the Conferenc e of the Parties  serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol, at its fifteenth session , to endorse the elements of the recommen ded budget as it 
applies to the Kyoto Protocol;  
10. Also invites  the United Nations General Assembly to decide, at its seventy -fourth  
session, on the issue of meeting the conference services  expenses from its regular budget as 
a continuation of existing practi ce; 
11. Approves a contingency budget for confer ence services, a mounting to 
EUR  7,501,900, to be added to the programme budget for the biennium 2020 –2021 in the 
event that the United Nations General Assembly decides not to provide resources for these 
activitie s in the United Nations regular budget (see table 3);  
12. Reques ts the Executive Secretary to report to the Subsidiary Body for Implementation 
on the implementation of matters referred to in paragraphs 10–11 above, as  necessary;  
13. Authorizes  the Executive Secret ary to make transfers between each of the 
appropriation line s set out in table 1, up to an aggregate limit of 15 per cent of total estimated 
expenditure for those appropriation  lines, provided that a further limitation of up to –25 per 
                                                           
 1 Decision 15/CP. 1, annex I , as amended by decision 17/CP.4, para. 16 . 
 2 See document FCCC/SBI/2019 /4, chap. III.D . 
 3 FCCC/SBI/2019 /4 and Add.1 –2. FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.2  
 27 cent of each such ap propriation line shall apply, while ensuring no negative imp acts on the 
activities under each division ; 
14. Decides  to maintain the level of the working  capital reserve at 8.3 per cent of the 
estimated expenditure;  
15. Urges Parties that have not made contribution s in full to the core budget for the current 
and/or previous bienniums to do so without further delay ; 
16. Invites  all Parties to the Convention to note that each Party shall, prior to 1 January of 
each year, inform the secretariat of the contribution it inten ds to make that year and of the 
projected timing of that contribution in accordance with paragraph 8(a) of the financial 
procedures for the Conference of the Parties, its subsidiary bodies and the secretariat,4 and 
that contributions to the core budget are  due on 1 January of each year in accordance with 
paragraph 8(b) of the financial procedures , and to pay promptly and in full, for each of the 
years 2020 and 2021, the contributions required to finance the expenditur es approved in 
paragraph 1 above and any  contributions required to finance the expenditures arising from 
the decision referred to in paragraph 11 above;  
17. Takes note  of the funding estimates for the Trust Fund for Participation in the 
UNFCCC Process specifie d by the Executive Secretary (see table 4); 
18. Invites Parties to make contributions to the Trust Fund for Participation in the 
UNFCCC Process;  
19. Takes note  of the funding estimates for the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities 
specified by the Executive Secr etary (EUR 63 ,542,327 for the biennium 2 020–2021) (see 
table 5);  
20. Invites  Parties to make contributions to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities  
with a view to enabling the implementation of activities envisaged under the Fund; 
21. Requests  the secretariat to continue to seek efficiencies  and streamline administrative 
services  in order to save costs in the biennium 2020 –2021 and to report thereon at t he fifty-
fourth  session of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation (May –June 2021);  
22. Also requests  the Executive Secretary to report to the Conferenc e of the Parties at its 
twenty -sixth  session ( November  2020 ) on income and budget  performance  for the period 
1 January  to 30 June 2020 , taking into account guidance from Parties, and to propose any 
adjustments that might be needed to the programme budget f or the bie nnium 2020 –2021;  
23. Further requests  the Executive Secretary to prepare a biennial  final report on the 
implementation of the core budget and the supplementary budget, covering the period from 
January of the first year to December of the second year of the budget period  and provid ing 
information on expenditure by programme and by stream of activities and on overall 
execution against specific objectives and items of expenditure , for consider ation  by the 
Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its first s ession held after the end  of the reporting 
period and for input into the  preparation of the budget for the following  budget period ; 
  Other  financial and budgetary matters  
24. Takes note  of the information contained in the note by the secretariat on the revise d 
indicative contributions for 201 9;5 
25. Decides that the scale of contributions contained in the annex shall also be applicable 
for 2019, covering 85 per cent of the contributions specified in table 1 of decision 21/CP.23.  
  
                                                           
 4  As footnote 1 above . 
 5  FCCC/SBI/2019/INF.5.  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.2  
28  Table 1  
2020–2021 core  budget by appropriation line  
(Euro s) 
 2020  2021  2020–2021  
A. Appropriations     
Executive   1 667 860   1 667 860   3 335 720  
Programmes Coordination   256 940   256 940   513 880  
Adaptation   3 261 940   3 261 940   6 523 880  
Mitigation   2 049 500   2 049 500   4 099 000  
Means of Implementation   3 018 600   3 018 600   6 037 200  
Transparency   6 159 920   6 159 920   12 319 840  
Operations Coordination   588 980   588 980   1 177 960  
Secretariat -wide costsa  1 293 335   1 293 335   2 586 670  
AS/HR/ICTb  2 115 905   2 115 905   4 231 810  
Conference Affairs   1 324 120   1 324 120   2 648 240  
Legal Affairs   1 160 680   1 160 680   2 321 360  
Intergovernmental Support and Collective 
Progress   1 579 820   1 676 840   3 256 660  
Communications and Engagem ent  1 664 740   1 664 740   3 329 480  
IPCCc  244 755   244 755   489 510  
Total appropriations   26 387 095   26 484 115   52 871 210  
B. Programme support costsd  3 430 322   3 442 935   6 873 257  
C. Adjustment to working capital reservee  102 271   1 047   103 317  
Total (A+B+C)   29 919 688   29 928 097   59 847 785  
Income     – 
Contribution from the Host Government   766 938   766 938   1 533 876  
Contributions from all Parties   29 152 750   29 161 159   58 313 909  
Total income   29 919 688   29 928 097   59 847 785  
Abbreviations : AS = Administrative Services , HR = Human Resources , ICT = Information and Communication 
Technology Services , IPCC = Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.  
a   Secretariat -wide operating costs are pooled costs of staf f and facilities managed by AS/HR on behalf of all 
programmes . 
b   AS and HR are funded from programme support costs (overhead) and ICT is funded from the core budget . The 
appropriation line includes secretariat -wide operating costs managed by AS.  
c   Provision fo r an annual grant to the IPCC.  
d   Standard  13 per cent applied for  administrative support.  
e   In accordance with the financial procedures (decision 15/CP.1), the core budget is required to maintain a working 
capital reserve of 8.3 per cent (one month of operatin g requirements). The working capital reserve in the budget 
amou nts to EUR 2,474,846 in 2020 and  2,475,892 in 2021.  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.2  
 29 Table 2  
Secretariat -wide staffing from the core budget  
 2019 2020 2021 
Professional category and above     
USG  1 1 1 
ASG  1 1 1 
D-2 2 2 2 
D-1 7 8 8 
P-5 15 18 18 
P-4 35 34 34 
P-3 43 44 44 
P-2 16 18 19 
Subtotal Professional category and above  120 126 127 
Subtotal General Service category  53.5 53.5 53.5 
Total  173.5  179.5  180.5  
Abbreviations : ASG  = Assistant Secretary -General , D = Di rector, P = Professional, USG = Under -Secretary -General .  
 
Table 3  
Resource requirements for the conference services contingency  
(Euros)  
Object of expenditure  2020  2021  2020–2021  
    Interpretation  1 199 500  1 235 500  2 435 000  
Documentation     
Transl ation  1 074 400  1 106 700  2 181 100  
Reproduction and 
distribution  625 300  644 000  1 269 300  
Meetings services support  239 000  246 200  485 200  
Subtotal  3 138 200  3 232 400  6 370 600  
Overhead charge  408 000  420 200  828 200  
Working capital reserve  294 30 0 8 800  303 100  
Total  3 840 500  3 661 400  7 501 900  
 
Table 4  
Resource requirements for the Trust Fund for Participation in the UNFCCC Process  
Sessional option  Estimated cost (EUR)  
Support for one delegate from each eligible Party plus a second delegate  
from each LDC and each SIDS to participate in a two -week session in 
Bonn  
Support for two delegates from each eligible Party plus a third delegate 
from each LDC and each SIDS to participate in a two -week session 
outside Bonna 11 331 640  
Abbreviations : LDC  = least developed country , SIDS = small island developing State.  
a  As the locations for the 2020 and 2021 climate conferences are not yet confirmed, for budgetary 
purposes Santiago was used as the example for airfare and London for daily subsistence allo wance.  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.2  
30  Table 5  
Overview of projects and funding requirements from the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities 
for the biennium 2020 –2021  
Project 
number  Project/subproject  Supplementary 
requirements (EUR)  
    SB101 -000 Intergovernmental engagement  2 764 116  
SB101 -003 Consultancies to conduct the independent review of the CTCN and periodic 
assessment of the Technology Mechanism              197 750  
SB101 -004 Additional support to the development of the enhanced transparency 
framework  1 594 385  
SB101 -005 Enhanced coordination and operational support to Presidency teams                 662 948  
SB101 -007 Enhanced legal support to presiding officers          309 032  
 SB102:000 Intergovernmental processes        10 436 766  
SB102 -001 Enhanced support to e stablished work programmes on research and systematic 
observation, the technical examination process on adaptation, the NWP and 
NAPs   1 664 847  
SB102 -002 Support to the technical examination process on mitigation    1 350 079  
SB102 -003 Enhanced support,  engagement and outreach in support of the development of 
the biennial assessment and overview of financial flows , including in relation 
to Article 2, paragraph 1(c), of the Paris Agreement, and determination of 
needs of developing countries           1 320  572  
SB102 -004 Full support to all potential reviews of national reporting, including reporting 
related to REDD +          3 843 460  
SB102 -005 Enhanced support for the review of the long -term goal and preparations for the 
global stocktake                 574 741  
SB102 -006 Enhanced support to ACE and the summary for policymakers on the technical 
examination processes on mitigation and adaptation    1 683 067  
 SB200 -000 Constituted bodies         20 377 803  
SB200 -001 Support for the full extent of activ ities envisaged in the workplans of the AC, 
the LEG, the LCIPP FWG and the WIM Executive Committee            4 129 712  
SB200 -002 Support for the full extent of activities envisaged in the workplans of the KCI 
and contingency for any institutional arrange ments related to Article 6 of the 
Paris Agreement           4 114 714  
SB200 -003 Support for the full extent of activities envisaged in the workplans of the SCF, 
the TEC and  the PCCB                 995 650  
SB200 -004 Support for the full extent of short -term activities of the CGE, in particular in 
support of developing countries ’ reporting            10 651 195  
SB200 -007 Support for the full extent of short -term activities of the compliance 
committees under the Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement                 486 533  
 SB300 -000 Data and information management         11 798 167  
SB300 -001 Development and enhancement of adaptation -related data portals, including the 
adaptation registry, NAPs  and the  NWP                 634 843  
SB300 -002 Development and enhancement of mitigation -related data portals and data 
management systems, including an NDC registry, an information portal on 
long-term low -emission development strategies and a contingency system for 
corresponding adjustment under Article 6, paragra ph 2, of the Paris Agreement            3 041 305  
SB300 -003 Development and enh ancement of support and means of implementation data 
portals, in particular the finance, TT:CLEAR and capacity -building portals                 387 866  
SB300 -004 Enhancement o f existing portals and data management for existing 
transparency arrangements an d initiation of the development of systems for the 
enhanced transparency framework            2 476 734  
SB300 -006 Maintenance and enhancement of NAZCA and internal communicati ons           1 605 504  
SB300 -009 Enhancement of the security of the secretariat’s data management systems            1 492 097  
SB300 -008 Enhancement of the registration and accreditation system for UNFCCC 
conferences and events            1 858 398  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.2  
 31 Project 
number  Project/subproject  Supplementary 
requirements (EUR)  
   SB300-007 Enhancement of the elections portal and database                 301 421  
 SB400 -000 Enhance d engagement    16 231 311  
SB400 -001 Enhanced engagement with respect to climate change impacts, vulnerability 
and adaptation                 230 520  
SB40 0-002 Regional dialogues and broader engagement and partnerships with respect to 
NDCs and consideration of the socioeconomic impacts of their development 
and implementation              318 145  
SB400 -003 Enhanced engagement with Parties and other stakehol ders to strengthen the 
capacities of developing coun tries with respect to the implementation of NDCs 
and NAPs            4 232 121  
SB400 -004 Enhanced engagement with national reporting experts to enhance capacity for 
participation in the transparency arra ngements under the Convention and the 
Paris Agreemen t           2 737 631  
SB400 -006 Enhanced engagement of all stakeholders in the UNFCCC process and action 
towards the objective of the Convention, including provision of multilingual 
communication materi als and regional engagement                569 283  
SB400 -009 Enhancement of the information and communication technology  infrastructure 
required to support virtual participation and engagement in UNFCCC events 
and activities            6 526 518  
SB400 -007 Enhanced engagement with and support of legislato rs and policymakers 
through information exchange and knowledge management with respect to 
climate change legislation           805 690  
SB400 -010 Enhanced engagement by the Executive Secretary and Deputy E xecutive 
Secretary in United Nations wide managemen t and coordination activities             811 403  
 SB500 -000 Oversight and administration   1 979 365  
SB500 -010 Consultancies to support organizational oversight and development and 
enhanced engagement by the Executive Secretary and Deputy Executive 
Secretary in United Nations wide management and coordination activities    170 630  
SB500 -012 Coordination of innovat ion activities and operational efficiency improvements   455 797  
SB500 -009 Upgrading of t he secretariat’s information and communication technology  
infrastructure   864 009  
SB500 -007 Institutional legal review and advice with respect to all of the secretariat’s 
activities and operations   488 928  
 Total   63 542 327  
Abbreviations : AC =  Adapt ation  Committee , ACE =  Action for Climate Empowerment , CGE =  Consultative Group 
of Experts , CTCN = Climate Technology Centre and Network , KCI = Katowice Committee of Experts on the Impacts 
of the Implementation of Response Measures , LCIPP  FWG  = Facilitativ e Working Group of the Local Communities 
and Indigenous Peoples Platform , LEG =  Least Developed Countries Expert Group , NAP =  national adaptatio n plan , 
NAZCA =  Non-State Actor Zone for Climate Action , NDC =  nationally determined contribution , NWP =  Nairobi  work 
programme on impacts, vulnerability and adaptation to climate change , PCCB =  Paris Committee on Capacity -building , 
REDD+ = reducing emissi ons from deforestation; reducing emissions from forest degradation;  conservation of forest 
carbon stocks; sustai nable management of forests; and  enhancement of forest carbon stocks (decision 1/CP.16, para. 
70), SCF = Standing Committee on Finance , TEC =  Technology Executive Committee , TT:CLEAR =  technology 
information clearing house , WIM =  Warsaw International Mecha nism for Loss and Damage associated with Climate 
Change Impacts . 
 
 
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Ad d.2 
32  Annex  
  Indicative scale of contributions from Parties to the 
Convention for the period  2019–2021  
Party  United  Nations  scale of 
assessments for 2019  UNFCCC adjusted  scale for 
2020–2021  
Afghanistan  0.007  0.007  
Albania  0.008  0.008  
Algeria  0.138  0.135  
Andorra  0.005  0.005  
Angola  0.010  0.010  
Antigua and Barbuda  0.002  0.002  
Argentina  0.915  0.892  
Armenia  0.007  0.007  
Australia  2.210  2.155  
Austria  0.677  0.660  
Azerbaijan  0.049  0.048  
Baha mas 0.018  0.018  
Bahrain  0.050  0.049  
Bangladesh  0.010  0.010  
Barbados  0.007  0.007  
Belarus  0.049  0.048  
Belgium  0.821  0.800  
Belize  0.001  0.001  
Benin  0.003  0.003  
Bhutan  0.001  0.001  
Bolivia (Plurinational State of)  0.016  0.016  
Bosnia and Herzegovina  0.012 0.012  
Botswana  0.014  0.014  
Brazil  2.948  2.874  
Brunei Darussalam  0.025  0.024  
Bulgaria  0.046  0.045  
Burkina Faso  0.003  0.003  
Burundi  0.001  0.001  
Cabo Verde  0.001  0.001  
Cambodia  0.006  0.006  
Cameroon  0.013  0.013  
Canada  2.734  2.665  
Central African  Republic  0.001  0.001  
Chad  0.004  0.004  
Chile  0.407  0.397  
China  12.005  11.704  
Colombia  0.288  0.281  
Comoros  0.001  0.001  
Congo  0.006  0.006  
Cook Islands  0.000  0.001  
Costa Rica  0.062  0.060  
Côte d’Ivoire  0.013  0.013  
Croatia  0.077  0.075  
Cuba  0.080  0.078 
Cyprus  0.036  0.035  
Czechia  0.311  0.303  
Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea  0.006  0.006  
Democratic Republic of the Congo  0.010  0.010  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.2  
 33 Party  United  Nations  scale of 
assessments for 2019  UNFCCC adjusted  scale for 
2020–2021  
Denmark  0.554  0.540  
Djibouti  0.001  0.001  
Dominica  0.001  0.001  
Dominican Republic  0.053  0.052  
Ecuador  0.080  0.078 
Egypt  0.186  0.181  
El Salvador  0.012  0.012  
Equatorial Guinea  0.016  0.016  
Eritrea  0.001  0.001  
Estonia  0.039  0.038  
Eswatini  0.002  0.002  
Ethiopia  0.010  0.010  
European Union  0.000  2.500  
Fiji 0.003  0.003  
Finland  0.421  0.410  
France  4.427  4.316  
Gabon  0.015  0.015  
Gambia  0.001  0.001  
Georgia  0.008  0.008  
Germany  6.090  5.937  
Ghana  0.015  0.015  
Greece  0.366  0.357  
Grenada  0.001  0.001  
Guatemala  0.036  0.035  
Guinea  0.003  0.003  
Guinea -Bissau  0.001  0.001  
Guyana  0.002  0.002  
Haiti  0.003  0.003  
Honduras  0.009 0.009  
Hungary  0.206  0.201  
Iceland  0.028  0.027  
India  0.834  0.813  
Indonesia  0.543  0.529  
Iran (Islamic Republic of)  0.398  0.388  
Iraq 0.129  0.126  
Ireland  0.371  0.362  
Israel  0.490  0.478  
Italy 3.307  3.224  
Jamaica  0.008  0.008  
Japan  8.564  8.349  
Jordan 0.021  0.020  
Kazakhstan  0.178  0.174  
Kenya  0.024  0.023  
Kiribati  0.001  0.001  
Kuwait  0.252  0.246  
Kyrgyzstan  0.002  0.002  
Lao People’s Democratic Republic  0.005  0.005  
Latvia  0.047  0.046  
Lebanon  0.047  0.046  
Lesotho  0.001  0.001  
Liberia  0.001  0.001  
Libya 0.030  0.029  
Liechtenstein  0.009  0.009  
Lithuania  0.071  0.069  
Luxembourg  0.067  0.065  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Ad d.2 
34  Party  United  Nations  scale of 
assessments for 2019  UNFCCC adjusted  scale for 
2020–2021  
Madagascar  0.004  0.004  
Malawi  0.002  0.002  
Malaysia  0.341  0.332  
Maldives  0.004  0.004  
Mali  0.004  0.004  
Malta  0.017  0.017  
Marshall Islands  0.001  0.001  
Mauritani a 0.002  0.002  
Mauritius  0.011  0.011  
Mexico  1.292  1.260  
Micronesia (Federated States of)  0.001  0.001  
Monaco  0.011  0.011  
Mongolia  0.005  0.005  
Montenegro  0.004  0.004  
Morocco  0.055  0.054  
Mozambique  0.004  0.004  
Myanmar  0.010  0.010  
Namibia  0.009  0.009  
Nauru  0.001  0.001  
Nepal  0.007  0.007  
Netherlands  1.356  1.322  
New Zealand  0.291  0.284  
Nicaragua  0.005  0.005  
Niger  0.002  0.002  
Nigeria  0.250  0.244  
Niue  0.000  0.001  
North Macedonia  0.007  0.007  
Norway  0.754  0.735  
Oman  0.115  0.112  
Pakistan  0.115  0.112 
Palau  0.001  0.001  
Panama  0.045  0.044  
Papua New Guinea  0.010  0.010  
Paraguay  0.016  0.016  
Peru 0.152  0.148  
Philippines  0.205  0.200  
Poland  0.802  0.782  
Portugal  0.350  0.341  
Qatar  0.282  0.275  
Republic of Korea  2.267  2.210  
Republic of Moldova  0.003  0.003 
Romania  0.198  0.193  
Russian Federation  2.405  2.345  
Rwanda  0.003  0.003  
Saint Kitts and Nevis  0.001  0.001  
Saint Lucia  0.001  0.001  
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines  0.001  0.001  
Samoa  0.001  0.001  
San Marino  0.002  0.002  
Sao Tome and Principe  0.001  0.001  
Saudi Arabia  1.172  1.143  
Senegal  0.007  0.007  
Serbia  0.028  0.027  
Seychelles  0.002  0.002  
Sierra Leone  0.001  0.001  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.2  
 35 Party  United  Nations  scale of 
assessments for 2019  UNFCCC adjusted  scale for 
2020–2021  
Singapore  0.485  0.473  
Slovakia  0.153  0.149  
Slovenia  0.076  0.074  
Solomon Islands  0.001  0.001  
Somalia  0.001  0.001  
South Africa  0.272 0.265  
South Sudan  0.006  0.006  
Spain  2.146  2.092  
Sri Lanka  0.044  0.043  
State of Palestine  0.000  0.008  
Sudan  0.010  0.010  
Suriname  0.005  0.005  
Sweden  0.906  0.883  
Switzerland  1.151  1.122  
Syrian Arab Republic  0.011  0.011  
Tajikistan  0.004  0.004  
Thailand  0.307  0.299  
Timor -Leste  0.002  0.002  
Togo  0.002  0.002  
Tonga  0.001  0.001  
Trinidad and Tobago  0.040  0.039  
Tunisia  0.025  0.024  
Turkey  1.371  1.337  
Turkmenistan  0.033  0.032  
Tuvalu  0.001  0.001  
Uganda  0.008  0.008  
Ukraine  0.057  0.056  
United Arab E mirates  0.616  0.601  
United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland  4.567  4.452  
United Republic of Tanzania  0.010  0.010  
United States of America  22.000  21.448  
Uruguay  0.087  0.085  
Uzbekistan  0.032  0.031  
Vanuatu  0.001  0.001  
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)  0.728  0.710  
Viet Nam  0.077  0.075  
Yemen  0.010  0.010  
Zambia  0.009  0.009  
Zimbabwe  0.005  0.005  
Total  100.000  100.000  
7th plenary meeting  
12 December 2019  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.2  
36    Decision 18/CP.25  
   Administrative, financial and institutional matters  
The Confere nce of the Parties , 
Recalling the financial procedures for the Conference of the Parties,1 
Also recalling  decision 18/CP.24, section III, on other budgetary matters,  
Having  considered  the information contained in the documents prepared by the 
secretariat o n administrative, financial and institutional matters,2 
Noting that notifications to Parties of their con tributions for 2020 were sent to them 
by 30 September 2019,  
Welcoming  ongoing efforts to improve the efficiency and transparency of the 
UNFCCC budget p rocess,  
I. Budget performance for the biennium 2018 –2019  
1. Takes note  of the information contained in the repo rt on budget performance for the 
biennium 2018 –2019 as at 30 June 20193 and the note on the status of contributions to the 
trust funds administered by the secretariat as at 15 November 2019;4 
2. Expresses its appreciation  to Parties that made contributions to  the core budget, in 
particular to Parties that made contributions in a timely manner;  
3. Expresses concern  regarding the high level of outstanding contri butions to the core 
budget for the current and previous bienniums, which has resulted in difficulties wit h cash 
flow and the effective implementation of activities;  
4. Strongly urges  Parties that have not made contributions in full to the core budget for 
the current and/or previous bienniums to do so without further delay;  
5. Calls upon  Parties to make their contri butions to the core budget for 2020 in a timely 
manner, noting that letters requesting payment have already been sent by the secretariat to 
all Parties  and bearing in mind that contributions are due on 1 January of each year in 
accordance with the financia l procedures for the Conference of the Parties;  
6. Expresses its appreciation  for the contributions to the Trust Fund for Participation in 
the UNFCCC Proc ess and to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities received from 
Parties, including those contributio ns that allow for greater flexibility in allocation;  
7. Urges  Parties to further contribute to the Trust Fund for Participation in the UNFCCC 
Process, in order to ensure the widest possible participation in the negotiations in 2020 –2021, 
and to the Trust Fund  for Supplementary Activities;  
8. Reiterates its appreciation  to the Government of Germany for its annual voluntary 
contribution to the core budget of EU R 766,938 and its special contribution  of 
EUR  1,789,522 as Host Government of the secretariat;  
9. Requests  the Executive Secretary to take further measures to recover outstanding 
contributions and encourages  Parties to pay those outstanding contributions as s oon as 
possible;  
                                                           
 1 Decision 15/CP.1, annex I . 
 2 FCCC/SBI/2019/14 and Add.1 –2, FCCC/SBI/20 19/INF. 9 and Add.1 , FCCC/SBI/201 9/INF. 12 and 
FCCC/SBI/201 9/INF. 16. 
 3 FCCC/SBI/2019/14 and Add.1 –2. 
 4 FCCC/SBI/2019/INF.16.  
 FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.2  
 37 II. Audit report and financial statements for 2018  
10. Takes note  of the information c ontained in the audit report of the United Nations 
Board of Auditors5 and the financial statements for 2018, which include recommendations, 
and the comments of t he secretariat thereon;  
11. Expresses its appreciation  to the United Nations for arranging the audi t of the 
accounts of the Convention;  
12. Also expresses its appreciation  to the auditors for the valuable observations and 
recommendations and the presentation made thereon to Parties;  
13. Urges  the Executive Secretary to implement the recommendations of the auditors, as 
appropriate, including those outstanding from the 2017 audit report, and to update Parties on 
progress in the next audit report;  
14. Requests  the Executive S ecretary in her update to  Parties on progress towards 
implementing the recommendation of the auditors to provide expected timelines for the 
completion of audit recommendations that are under implementation;  
III. Other budgetary matters  
15. Encourages  the secretaria t to enhance its implemen tation of decision 18/CP.24 in 
order to continue to improve the transparency and efficiency of the UNFCCC budget with a 
view to reducing redundancies and increasing cost -efficiency;  
16. Also e ncourages  Parties to take into account the  budgetary implications o f decisions 
and conclusions in advance of decision -making;  
17. Welcomes  the notes by the Executive Secretary on the budgetary implications of 
UNFCCC mandates : standard costs, prepared for consideration at the fiftieth and fifty -first 
sessions of the Subsidiary  Body for Implementation ;6 
18. Requests  the secretariat to implement the recommendations contained in document 
FCCC/SBI/2019/INF.4;  
19. Also requests  the secretariat to report on its efforts to further improve the efficiency 
and transparen cy of the UNFCCC budget p rocess and documentation for consideration at the 
first session of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation each year, including on its 
implementation of this decision, and on the provisions on other budgetary matters contained 
in de cision 18/CP.24.  
7th plenary meeting  
12 December 2019  
                                                           
 5 FCCC/SBI/2019/INF.9 and Add.1.  
 6 FCCC/SBI/2019/INF.4 and FCCC/SBI/2019/INF.12.  FCCC/CP/2019/13/Add.2  
38     Resolution 1 /CP.25 
  Expression of gratitude to the Government of the Republic of 
Chile, the Government of the Kingdom of Spain and the 
people of the city of Madrid  
 Resolution submitted by the Unit ed Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland  
 The Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement , 
 Having met  in Madrid  from 2 to 15 December 2019 , 
1. Express their profound gratitude to the Government of the Republi c of Chile  and the 
Government of the Kingdom of Spain for having made it possible for the twenty -fifth session 
of the Conference o f the Parties, the fifteenth session of the Conference of the Parties serving 
as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Proto col and the second session of the Conference 
of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement to be hel d in 
Madrid;  
2. Request the Government of the Kingdom of Spain and the  Government of the 
Republic of Chile  to convey to the city and people of Madrid  the gratitude of the Conference 
of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the P arties to the Kyoto 
Protocol and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement fo r the hospitality and warmth extended to the participants.  
10th plenary meeting  
15 December 2019  
      
 
GE.23 -04727(E)  
Conference of the Parties  
 Report of the Conference of the Parties on its twenty -seventh 
session, held in Sharm el -Sheikh  from 6 to 20 November 2022 
  Addendum  
 Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -
seventh session  
Contents  
  Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties  
 Decision  Page 
  1/CP.27  Sharm el -Sheikh Implementation Plan  ............................................................................  2 
  2/CP.27  Funding arrangements for responding to loss and damage associated with the  
    adverse effects of climate change, including a focus on addressing loss and damage  ....  11 
  3/CP.27  Sharm el -Sheikh j oint work on implementation of climate action on agriculture and  
food security  ....................................................................................................................  16 
  4/CP.27  Revision of the modalities and procedures for international assessment and review  ......  21 
  5/CP.27  Revision of the modalities and guidelines for international consultation and analysis  ...  22 
  6/CP.27  Revision of the UNFCCC reporting guidelines on annual inventories for Parties  
    included in Annex I to the Convention  ............................................................................  23 
  7/CP.27  Common metrics used to calculate the carbon dioxide equivalence of  
    anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions by sources and removals by sinks  ..................  25 
  8/CP.27  Report of the Adaptation Committee for 2022 and review of the progress,  
    effectiveness and performance of the Adaptation Committee  .........................................  26 
  9/CP.27  National adaptation plans  ................................................................................................  27 
  10/CP.27  Matters relating to the least developed countries  ............................................................  29 
  11/CP.27  Santiago network for averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated  
with the adverse effects of climate change under  the Warsaw International Mechanism  
for Loss and Damage associated with  Climate Change Impacts  .....................................  37 
  12/CP.27  Report of the Executive Committee of the Warsaw International Mechanism for  
    Loss and Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts  ...........................................  48 
  United Nations  FCCC /CP/2022/10/Add.1  
  
Distr.: General 
17 March 2023  
 Original: English  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
2    Decision 1/CP.27  
  Sharm el -Sheikh Implementation Plan  
The Conference of the Parties ,  
Recalling  decisions 1/CP.19, 1/CP.20, 1/CP.21, 1/CP.22, 1/CP.23, 1/CP.24, 1/CP.25 
and 1/CP.26,  
Noting  decision 1/CMA.4 , 
Being guided by science and principles,  
Reaffirming the outcomes of all previous sessions of the Conferences of the Parties, 
Conferences of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and 
Conferences of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement, including decisions 1/CP.26, 1/CMP.16 and 1/CMA.3 (the Glasgow Climate Pact),  
Also reaffirming  the critical role of multilateralism based on United Nations values 
and principles, including in the context of the implementation of the Convention and the Paris 
Agreement, and the importance of international cooperation for addressing global issues, 
including climate change, in the context of sustainable development and efforts to eradicate 
poverty,  
Noting  t he importance of transitioning to sustainable lifestyles and sustainable 
patterns of consumption and production in efforts  to address climate change,  
Also noting  the importance of pursuing an approach to education that promotes a shift 
in lifestyles while fostering patterns  of development and sustainability based on care, 
community and cooperation,  
Acknowledging that climate change is a common concern of humankind and that 
Parties should, when taking action to address  climate change, respect, promote and  consider 
their respective obligations on human rights, the right to a clean, healthy and sustainable environment, the right to health, the rights of indigenous peoples, local communities, migrants, children, persons with disabilities and people in vulnera ble situations and the right 
to development, as well as gender equality, empowerment of women and intergenerational equity,  
Noting  the importance of ensuring the integrity of all ecosystems, including in forests, 
the ocean and the cryosphere, and the protection of biodiversity, recognized by some cultures 
as Mother Earth, and also noting the importance of ‘climate justice’ , when taking action to 
address climate change,  
Emphasizing that enhanced effective climate action should be implemented in a 
manner th at is just and inclusive  while minimizing negative social or economic impacts that 
may arise from climate action,  
Recognizing  the fundamental priority of safeguarding food security and ending 
hunger, and the particular vulnerabilities of food production systems to the adverse impacts of climate change,  
Also recognizing the critical role of protecting, conserving and restoring water 
systems and water -related ecosystems in delivering climate adaptation benefits and co -
benefits, while ensuring social and environmental safeguards,  
1. Underlines the urgent need to address, in a comprehensive and synergetic manner, the 
interlinked global crises of climate change and biodiversity loss in the broader context of achieving the Sustainable Development Goals, as well as the vital importance of protecting, conserving, restoring and sustainably using nature and ecosystems for effective and sustainable climate action; 
2. Acknowledges  that the impacts of climate change exacerbate the global energy and 
food crises, and vice versa, particularly in developing countries;  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
 3 3. Stresses that the increasingly complex and challenging global geopolitical situation 
and its impact on the energy, food and economic situations, as well as the additional 
challenges associated with the socioeconomi c recovery from the coronavirus disease 2019 
pandemic, should not be used as a pretext for backtracking, backsliding or de -prioritizing 
climate action; 
I. Science and urgency  
4. Welcomes  the contributions of Working Groups II1 and III2 to the Sixth Assessment 
Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change;  
5. Recognizes  the importance of the best available science for effective climate action 
and policymaking;  
6. Takes note  of the 2022 adaptation gap3 and emissions gap4 reports of the United 
Nations Environment Programme, and recent global and regional reports of the World Meteorological Organization on the state of the climate;
5  
7. Reiterates  that the impacts of climate change will be much lower at th e temperature 
increase of 1.5 °C compared with 2 °C6 and resolves  to pursue further efforts to limit the 
temperature increase to 1.5 °C;  
8. Recognizes  the impacts of climate change on the cryosphere and the need for further 
understanding of these impacts, including of tipping points;  
II. Enhancing ambition and implementation  
9. Resolves to implement ambitious, just, equitable and inclusive transitions to low -
emission and climate -resilient development in line with the principles and objectives of the 
Convention, the  Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement, taking into account this decision, 
the Glasgow Climate Pact and other relevant decisions of the Conference of the Parties and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement; 
10. Expresses  appreciation to the Heads of State and Government who participated in the 
Sharm el -Sheikh Climate Implementation Summit for their support in enhancing and 
accelerating the implementation of climate action;  
III. Energy  
11. Emphasizes  the urgent need for immediate, deep, rapid and sustained reductions in 
global greenhouse gas emissions by Parties across all applicable sectors, including through 
 
 1 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. 2022. Climate Change 2022: Impacts, Adaptation, and 
Vulnerability. Contribution of Working Group II to the Sixth Assessment Report of the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change . H Pörtner, D Roberts, M Tignor, et al. (eds.). 
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Available at https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg2/ .  
 2 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. 2022. Climate Change 2022: Mitigation of Climate 
Change. Contribution of Working Group III to the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change . P Shukla, J Skea, R Slade, et al. (eds.). Cambridge and New York: 
Cambridge University Press. Available at https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg3/.  
 3  See United Nations Environment Programme. 2022. Adaptation Gap Report 2022: Too Little, Too 
Slow – Climate adaptation failure puts world at risk . Nairobi: United Nations Environment 
Programme. Available at https://www.unep.org/resources/adaptation- gap-report -2022 .  
 4  See United Nations Environment Programme. 2022. Emissions Gap Report 2022: The Closing 
Window – Climate crisis calls for rapid transformation of societies . Nairobi: United Nations 
Environment Programme . Available at https://www.unep.org/resources/emissions -gap-report- 2022 .  
 5  See, for example, World Meteorological Organization. 2022. State of the Global Climate 2021. 
Geneva: World Meteorological Organization. Available at  
https://library.wmo.int/index.php?lvl=notice_display&id=22080#.Y5cGUHbMKUk . 
 6 Decisions 1/CP.26, para. 16, and 1/CMA.3, para. 21.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
4  increasing the use of low -emission and renewable energy, just energy transition partnerships 
and other cooperati ve actions;  
12. Recognizes  that the unprecedented global energy crisis underlines the urgency to 
rapidly transform energy systems to be more secure, reliable and resilient, including by 
accelerating clean and just transitions to renewable energy during this cr itical decade of 
action; 
13. Stresses the importance of enhancing a clean energy mix, including low -emission and 
renewable energy, at all levels as part of diversifying energy mixes and systems, in line with 
national circumstances and recognizing the need for support towards just transitions;  
IV. Mitigation  
14. Recognizes  that limiting global warming to 1.5 °C requires rapid, deep and sustained 
reductions in global greenhouse gas emissions  of 43 per cent by 2030 relative to the 2019 
level; 
15. Also recognizes  that this req uires accelerated  action in this critical decade, on the basis 
of equity and the best available scientific knowledge, reflecting common but differentiated 
responsibilities and respective capabilities, in the light of different national circumstances and in the context of sustainable development and efforts to eradicate poverty;  
16. Calls upon Parties to accelerate the development, deployment and dissemination of 
technologies, and the adoption of policies, to transition towards low -emission energy 
systems, inclu ding by rapidly scaling up the deployment of clean power generation and 
energy efficiency measures, including accelerating efforts towards the phasedown of unabated coal power and phase -out of inefficient fossil fuel subsidies, while providing 
targeted sup port to the poorest and most vulnerable in line with national circumstances and 
recognizing the need for support towards a just transition;  
17. Reiterates
7 its invitation to Parties to consider further actions to reduce by 2030 non-
carbon dioxide greenhouse gas emissions, including methane;  
18. Emphasizes  the importance of protecting, conserving and restoring nature and 
ecosystems to achieve the Paris Agreement temperature goal, including through forests and 
other terrestrial and marine ecosystems acting as sinks and reservoirs of greenhouse gases and by protecting biodiversity, while ensuring social and environmental safeguards;  
19. Recognizes  the importance of maximizing the positive and minimizing the negative 
economic and social impacts of the implementation  of response measures and welcomes  the 
adoption of decisions 20/CP.27, 7/CMP.17 and 23/CMA.4;  
V. Adaptation  
20. Notes with serious concern  the existing gap between current levels of adaptation and 
levels needed to respond to the adverse effects of climate change in line with findings from the contribution of Working Group II to the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change;  
21. Urges  Parties to adopt a transformational approach to enhancing adaptive capacity, 
strengthening resilience and reducing vulnerability to climate change;  
22. Also urges  developed country Parties to urgently and significantly scale up their 
provision of climate fina nce, technology transfer and capacity- building for adaptation so as 
to respond to the needs of developing country Parties as part of a global effort, including for the formulation and implementation of national adaptation plans and adaptation communication s; 
23. Highlights  the role of the Least Developed Countries Fund and the Special Climate 
Change Fund in supporting actions by developing countries to address climate change, 
 
 7 Decision 1/CP.26, para. 19.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
 5 welcomes  the pledges made to the two Funds and invites  developed countries to further 
contribute to the two Funds;  
24. Emphasizes  the importance of protecting, conserving and restoring water and water -
related ecosystems, including river basins, aquifers and lakes, and urges  Parties to further 
integrate water into adaptation efforts;  
VI. Loss and da mage  
25. Notes with grave concern , according to information in the contributions of  Working 
Groups II and III to the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change, the growing gravity, scope and frequency in all regions of loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change, resulting in devastating economic and non-economic losses, including forced displacement and impacts on cultural heritage, human 
mobility and the lives and livelihoods of local communities, and u nderlines  the importance 
of an adequate and effective response to loss and damage;  
26. Expresses deep concern  regarding the significant financial costs associated with loss 
and damage for developing countries, resulting in a growing debt burden and impairing t he 
realization of the Sustainable Development Goals;  
27. Welcomes  the consideration, for the first time, of matters relating to funding 
arrangements responding to loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change, including a focus on addre ssing loss and damage, under the Conference of the Parties 
and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement and also welcomes  the adoption of decisions 2/CP.27 and 2/CMA.4,  on matters relating to 
funding arrangements responding to loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change;  
28. Further welcomes  the adoption of decisions 11/CP.27 and 12/CMA.4,  establishing the 
institutional arrangements of the Santiago network for averting, minimizing and a ddressing 
loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change to enable its full operationalization, including supporting its mandated role in catalysing technical assistance for the implementation of the relevant approaches at the local,  national and regional level in 
developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change, 
and affirms  its determination to select the host of the secretariat of the Santiago network by 
2023 through a selection process conducted in an open, transparent, fair and neutral manner in accordance with the process outlined in paragraphs 19 –23 of the decisions referred to 
above;  
VII. Early warning and systematic observation  
29. Emphasizes  the need to address existing gaps in the Global C limate Observing 
System, particularly in developing countries, and recognizes  that one third of the world, 
including 60 per cent of Africa, does not have access to early warning and climate information services, as well as the need to enhance coordination of activities by the 
systematic observation community and the ability to provide useful and actionable climate information for mitigation, adaptation and early warning systems, as well as information to enable understanding of adaptation limits and of attr ibution of extreme events;  
30. Welcomes  and reiterates  the United Nations Secretary -General’s call made on World 
Meteorological Day on 23 March 2022 to protect everyone on Earth through universal coverage of early warning systems against extreme weather and cl imate change within the 
next five years and invites  development partners, international financial institutions and the 
operating entities of the Financial Mechanism to provide support for implementation of the Early Warnings for All initiative; FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
6  VIII.  Implementat ion – pathways to just transition  
31. Affirms  that sustainable and just solutions to the climate crisis must be founded on 
meaningful and effective social dialogue and participation of all stakeholders and notes  that 
the global transition to low emissions provides opportunities and challenges for sustainable 
economic development and poverty eradication;  
32. Emphasizes  that just and equitable transition encompasses pathways that include 
energy, socioeconomic, workforce and other dimensions, all of which must be based on nationally defined development priorities and include social protection so as to mitigate potential impacts associated with the transition, and highlights  the important role of the 
instruments related to social solidarity and protection in mitigating the impacts of applied measures;  
IX. Finance  
33. Highlights  that about USD 4 trillion per year needs to be invested in clean energy 
technologies by 2030 to be able to reach net zero emissions by 2050,8 and that, furthermore, 
a global transformation to a low -carbon economy is expected to require an investment of at 
least USD  4– 6 trillion per year;9 
34. Also highlights  that delivering such funding will require a transformation of the 
financial system and its structures and processes, engaging governments, central banks, commercial banks, institutional investors and other financial actors;  
35. Notes with concern  the growing gap between the needs of developing country Parties, 
in particular those due to the increa sing impacts of climate change and their increased 
indebtedness, and the support provided and mobilized for their efforts to implement their nationally determined contributions, highlighting that such needs are currently estimated at USD 5.8 –5.9 trillion
10 for the pre -2030 period;  
36. Expresses  serious concern  that the goal of developed country Parties to mobilize 
jointly USD 100 billion per year by 2020 in the context of meaningful mitigation action and transparency on implementation has not yet been met and u rges developed country Parties to 
meet the goal;
11 
37. Emphasizes  that accelerated financial support for developing countries from 
developed countries and other sources is critical to enhancing mitigation action and addressing inequities in access to finance, including its costs, terms and conditions, and economic vulnerability to climate change for developing countries,
12 and that scaled -up 
public grants for mitigation and adaptation for vulnerable regions, in particular sub- Saharan 
Africa, would be cost -effective and have high social returns in terms of access to basic 
energy;  
 
 8 See International Energy Agency. 2022. World Energy Outlook 2022. Paris: International Energy 
Agency. Available at https://www.iea.org/reports/world -energy -outlook -2022 . 
 9 As footnote 4 above.   
 10 See Standing Committee on Finance. 2021. First report on the determination of the needs of 
developing country Parties related to implementing the Convention and the Paris Agreement . Bonn: 
UNFCCC. Available at https://unfccc.int/topics/climate -finance/workstreams/needs -report .  
 11 See Standing Committee on Finance. 2022. Report on progress towards achieving the goal of mobilizing jointly USD 100 billio n per year to address the needs of developing countries in the 
context of meaningful mitigation actions and transparency on implementation. Bonn: UNFCCC. 
Available at 
https://unfccc.int/process -and-meetings/bodies/constituted -bodies/standing-committee-
on-finance-scf/progress-report . 
 12 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. 2022. Summary for Policymakers. In : H Pörtner, D 
Roberts, M Tignor, et al. (eds.). Climate Change 2022: Impacts, Adaptation, and Vulnerability. 
Contribution of Working Group II to the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change . Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Available  at 
https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg2/
. FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
 7 38. Notes that global climate finance flows are small relative to the overall needs of 
developing countries, with such flows in 2019 –2020 estimated to be USD 803 billion,13 
which is 31– 32 per cent of the annual investment needed to keep the global temperature rise 
well below 2 °C or at 1.5 °C, and also below what would be expected in the light of the 
investment opportunities identified and the cost of failure to meet climate  stabilization 
targets; 
39. Urges  developed country Parties to provide enhanced support, including through 
financial resources, technology transfer and capacity -building, to assist developing country 
Parties with respect to both mitigation and adaptation, in continuation of their existing 
obligations under the Convention, and encourages  other Parties to provide or continue to 
provide such support voluntarily;  
40. Calls  on the shareholders of multilateral development banks and international 
financial institutions to  reform multilateral development bank practices and priorities, align 
and scale up funding, ensure simplified access and mobilize climate finance from various sources and encourages  multilateral development banks to define a new vision and 
commensurate operational model, channels and instruments that are fit for the purpose of adequately addressing the global climate emergency, including deploying a full suite of instruments, from grants to guarantees and non- debt instruments, taking into account debt 
burde ns, and to address risk appetite, with a view to substantially increasing climate finance;   
41. Calls  on multilateral development banks to contribute to significantly increasing 
climate ambition using the breadth of their policy and financial instruments for greater results, including on private capital mobilization, and to ensure higher financial efficiency and maximize use of existing concessional and risk capital vehicles to drive innovation and accelerate impact;  
42. Emphasizes  the ongoing challenges faced by many developing country Parties in 
accessing climate finance and encourages  further efforts, including by the operating entities 
of the Financial Mechanism, to simplify access to such finance;  
43. Takes note of the report on the determination of the needs of developing country 
Parties related to implementing the Convention and the Paris Agreement
14 and in this context 
urges  developed country Parties to provide resources for the second replenishment of the 
Green Climate Fund while demonstrating progression from the previous replenishment and in line with the programming capacity of the Fund;  
X. Technology transfer and deployment  
44. Welcomes with appreciation  the first joint work programme of the Technology 
Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Centre and Networ k,15 for 2023– 2027, 
which will facilitate the transformational change needed to achieve the goals of the Convention and the Paris Agreement, invites  Parties and stakeholders to cooperate and 
engage with the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Centre and Network to support the implementation of the joint work programme activities, including on technology needs assessments, action plans and road maps, acknowledges  the findings in the 
final report on the first periodic assessment of the e ffectiveness and adequacy of the support 
provided to the Technology Mechanism in supporting the implementation of the Paris Agreement
16 and decides  that the main challenges identified therein should be considered 
under the global stocktake;  
45. Highlights  the importance of cooperation on technology development and transfer and 
innovation in implementing the joint work programme activities;   
46. Welcomes  the forward -looking conclusions of the Subsidiary Body for 
Implementation to continue consideration of the Poznan strategic programme on technology 
 
 13 See document FCCC/CP/2022/8/Add.1−FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/7/Add.1.  
 14 As footnot e 10 above.  
 15 Available at https://unfccc.int/ttclear/tec/documents.html.  
 16 FCCC/SBI/2022/13.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
8  transfer at its sixty -first session (November 2024)17 with the aim of supporting the 
implementation of relevant activities, such as those identified and prioritized in developing 
countries’ nationally determined contributions, national adaptation plans, technology needs assessments and technology action plans, and long- term strategies;  
XI. Capacity -building  
47. Notes that capacity gaps and needs still exist in developing countries and calls on  
developed country Parties to increase support for long- term country -driven capacity -building 
interventions to enhance the effectiveness, success and sustainability of those interve ntions;  
XII. Taking stock  
48. Notes the importance of the periodic review of the long- term global goal under the 
Convention and welcomes  the adoption of decision 21/CP.27,  on the second periodic review 
of the long -term global goal under the Convention and of overal l progress towards 
achieving  it; 
XIII.  Ocean  
49. Welcomes  the outcomes of and key messages18 from the ocean and climate change 
dialogue19 in 2022 and decides  that future dialogues will, from 2023, be facilitated by two 
co-facilitators, selected by Parties biennially, who will be responsible for  deciding the topics 
for and conducting the dialogue, in consultation with Parties and observers, and preparing an informal summary report to be presented in conjunction with the subsequent session of the Conference of the Par ties; 
50. Encourages  Parties to consider, as appropriate, ocean -based action in their national 
climate goals and in the implementation of these goals , including but not limited to nationally 
determined contributions, long- term strategies and adaptation communi cations;  
XIV. Forest  
51. Recalls  that, in the context of the provision of adequate and predictable support to 
developing country Parties, Parties should collectively aim to slow, halt and reverse forest cover and carbon loss, in accordance with national circumstances, consistently with the ultimate objective of the Convention, as stated in its Article 2;
20 
52. Encourages  Parties to consider, as appropriate, nature -based solutions or ecosystem-
based approaches, taking into consideration United Nations Environment Assembly resolution 5/5,
21 for their mitigation and adaptation action while ensuring relevant social and 
environmental safeguards;  
XV. Agriculture  
53. Welcomes  the establishment of the four -year Sharm el -Sheikh joint work on 
implementation of climate action on agriculture and food security, as well as the establishment of the Sharm el -Sheikh online portal under the joint work, by decision 3/CP.27;  
 
 17 See FCCC/SBI/2022/20, paras. 77 –84.  
 18 Available at https://unfccc.int/documents/615101 .  
 19  Mandated in decision 1/CP.26, para. 61.  
 20  Decisions 1/CP.16 and 9/CP.19.  
 21  UNEP/EA.5/Res.5.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
 9 XVI. Enhancing implementation: action by non -Party stakeholders  
54. Acknowledges  the engagement of non- Party stakeholders in climate action, which 
complements and broadens it, while recognizing the pivotal role of governments in action on 
climate change within the framework of the Convention, the Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement;  
55. Recognizes  the important role of indigenous peoples, local communities, cities and 
civil society, including youth and children, in addressing and responding to climate change and highlights  the urgent need for multilevel and cooperative action in this regard;  
56. Notes the adoption of the action plan under the Glasgow work programme on Action 
for Climate  Empowerment by decision 23/CP.27;  
57. Encourages  Parties to inc rease the full, meaningful and equal participation of women 
in climate action and to ensure gender- responsive implementation and means of 
implementation, including by fully implementing the Lima work programme on gender and its gender action plan, to raise  climate ambition and achieve climate goals;  
58. Invites  Parties to provide support to developing countries for undertaking gender -
related action and implementing the gender action plan;  
59. Recognizes  the role of children and youth as agents of change in address ing and 
responding to climate change and encourages  Parties to include children and youth in their 
processes for designing and implementing climate policy and action, and, as appropriate, to consider including young representatives and negotiators into the ir national delegations, 
recognizing the importance of intergenerational equity and maintaining the stability of the climate system for future generations;  
60. Expresses  its appreciation to the Presidency of the twenty -seventh session of the 
Conference of the Parties for its leadership in promoting the full, meaningful and equal 
participation of children and youth, including by co- organizing the first youth- led climate 
forum (the Sharm el -Sheikh youth climate dialogue), hosting the first children and youth 
pavilion and appointing the first youth envoy of a Presidency of the Conference of the Parties and encourages  future incoming Presidencies of the Conference of the Parties to consider 
doing the same;  
61. Expresses  its appreciation to the children and youth constituency for co- organizing 
the Sharm el -Sheikh youth climate dialogue with the Presidency of the twenty -seventh 
session of the Conference of the Parties and notes  the outcomes of the se venteenth 
Conference of Youth, organized by the constituency and held in Sharm el -Sheikh in 
November 2022;  
62. Encourages  Parties and non- Party stakeholders to engage actively in the Marrakech 
Partnership for Global Climate Action;  
63. Welcomes  the leadership of the Presidency of the Conference of the Parties and the 
high- level champions, in particular in the context of the Sharm el -Sheikh Adaptation Agenda 
and the Breakthrough Agenda, and the collaboration between Parties and non- Party 
stakeholders, and emphasize s the need for continued acceleration and collaboration;  
64. Welcomes  the recommendations of the High- Level Expert Group on the Net -Zero 
Emissions Commitments of Non- State Entities, launched by the United Nations Secretary -
General in March 2022, which are designed to enhance transparency and accountability 
related to, and progress in achieving, the climate pledges of businesses, investors, cities and regions;  
65. Invites  the secretariat to ensure greater accountability of voluntary initiatives through 
the Non- State  Actor Zone for Climate Action platform;
22 
66. Welcomes  the convening of five regional forums led by the President of the twenty-
seventh session of the Conference of the Parties and the high- level champions, in 
 
 22  See https://climateaction.unfccc.int/.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
10  collaboration with the United Nations Regional Ec onomic Commissions, on initiatives for 
financing climate action and the Sustainable Development Goals.  
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
 FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
 11   Decision 2/CP.27  
  Funding arrangements for responding to loss and damage 
associated with the adverse effects of climate change, including a focus on addressing loss and damage
1 
The Conference of the Parties and t he Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement ,  
Recalling  the Convention and the Paris Agreement,  
Noting  the increasing urgency of enhancing efforts to avert, minimize and add ress loss 
and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change in the light of continued 
global warming and its significant impacts on vulnerable populations and the ecosystems on which they depend, as illustrated by the findings in relevant re cent scientific reports, 
including the contributions of Working Groups I
2 and II3 to the Sixth Assessment Report of 
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change,  
Also noting  that keeping the global average temperature rise to below 1.5 °C will be 
essen tial to limiting future loss and damage and expressing alarm  that the contribution of 
Working Group II to the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, in line with other  best available science, concluded that the gravity, s cope and 
frequency of loss and damage will continue to increase with every additional fraction of a degree of temperature increase,  
Recalling  previous work under the UNFCCC as part of the consideration of the current 
state of finance for addressing loss a nd damage associated with the adverse effects of climate 
change,
4 
Acknowledging the many institutions and stakeholders involved in financing activities 
for averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change, including extreme weather events and slow onset events,  
Welcoming  related initiatives announced at the twenty- seventh session of the 
Conference of the Parties, including, but not limited to, the Global Shield against Climate Risks and the United Nations Secretary -General’s Early Warnings for All,  
Acknowledging that existing funding arrangements fall short of responding to current 
and future impacts of climate change and are not sufficient to address the existing funding gaps related to providing action and support in responding to loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change,  
Recalling paragraphs 7(b) and 2 of the reports on these sessions of the  Conference of 
the Parties and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
 
 1 This item and the outcomes thereof are without prejudice to the consideration of similar issues in the  
future.  
 2 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. 2021. Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science 
Basis. Contribution of Working Group I to the Sixth Assessment Report of the I ntergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change . V Masson -Delmotte, P Zhai, A Pirani, et al. (eds.). Cambridge: Cambridge 
University Press. Available at https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg1/ . 
 3 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. 2022. Climate Change 2022: Impacts, Adaptation, and 
Vulnerability. Contribution of Working Group II to the Sixth Assessment Report of the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change . H Pörtner, D Roberts, M Tignor, et al. (eds.). 
Cam bridge: Cambridge University Press. Available at https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg2/ . 
 4 Including but not limited to the 2016 Forum of the Standing Committee of Finance on financial instruments that addr ess the risks of loss and damage, a technical paper on the elaboration of the 
sources of and modalities for accessing financial support for addressing loss and damage (FCCC/TP/2019/1), the Suva expert dialogue on loss and damage associated with climate cha nge 
impacts, and the 1
st Glasgow Dialogue, to discuss funding arrangements for activities to avert, 
minimize and address loss and damage.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
12  Agreement respectively, in relation to the adoption of agenda sub- item 8(f), “Matters relating 
to finance: matters relating to funding arrangements responding to loss and damage 
associated with the adverse effects of climate change, including a focus on addressing loss and damage” , 
1. Acknowledge  the urgent and immediate need for new, additional, predictable and 
adequate financial resources to assist developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change in responding to economic and non- economic loss and 
damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change, including extreme weather events and slow onset events, especially in the context of ongoing and ex post (including rehabilitation, recovery and reconstruction) action;  
2. Decide to establish new funding arrangements for assisting developing countries that 
are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of  climate change, in responding to loss and 
damage, including with a focus on addressing loss and damage by providing and assisting in 
mobilizing new and additional resources, and that these new arrangements complement and 
include sources, funds, processes and initiatives under and outside  the Convention and the 
Paris Agreement;  
3. Also decide , in the context of establishing the new funding arrangements referred to 
in paragraph 2 above, to establish a fund for responding to loss and damage whose mandate includes a focus on addressing loss and damage;  
4. Establish  a transitional committee on the operationalization of the new funding 
arran gements for responding to loss and damage  and the fund established in paragraph 3 
above  (hereinafter referred to as the Transitional Committee) , in accordance with the terms 
of reference contained in the annex, to make recommendations based on, inter alia,  elements 
for operationalization included in paragraph 5 below, for consideration and adoption by the 
Conference of the Parties at its twenty -eighth session (November –December 2023 ) and the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to  the Paris Agreement at its 
fifth session (November –December 2023)  with a view to operationalizing the funding 
arrangements referred to in paragraph 2 above, including the fund referred to in paragraph 3 above;  
5. Agree that the recommendations  to operational ize the funding arrangements  and the 
fund referred to in paragraphs 2– 3 above  respectively shall consider,  inter alia:  
(a) Establishing institutional arrangements , modalities, structure, governance and 
terms of reference for  the fund  referred to in paragraph 3 above ; 
(b) Defining the elements of the new funding arrangements referred to in 
paragraph 2 above;  
(c) Identifying and expanding sources  of funding;  
(d) Ensuring coordination and complementarity with  existing funding 
arrangements;  
6. Decide that the Transitional Committee referred to in paragraph 4 above will be 
informed by the following, inter alia:  
(a) The current landscape of institutions , including global, regional and natio nal, 
that are funding activities related to addressing loss and damage, and ways in which coherence, coordination and synergies among them can be enhanced;  
(b) The gaps within that current landscape, including the types of gap, such as 
relating to speed, eligibility, adequacy and access to finance, noting that these may vary 
depending on the challenge, such as climate -related emergencies, sea level rise, 
displacement, relocation, migration, insufficient climate information and data, or the need for climate -resilient reconstruction and recovery;  
(c) The priority gaps for which  solutions should be explored;   
(d) The most effective ways in which to address the gaps, especially for the most 
vulnerable populations and the ecosystems  on which they depend;  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
 13 (e) Potential sources of  funding, recognizing the need for support from a wide 
variety of sources, including innovative sources;  
7. Also decide  to undertake  the following activities for informing the recommendations 
referred to in paragraphs 4 –5 above:  
(a) Request the secretariat to con duct two workshops in 2023, with the 
participation of a diversity of institutions, relevant  to addressing loss and damage associated 
with climate change impacts;  
(b) Request the secretariat to prepare a synthesis report on existing funding 
arrangements and innovative sources relevant to addressing loss and damage associated with 
the adverse effects of climate change; 
(c) Invite Parties and relevant organizations to submit via the submission portal5 
by 15 February 2023 views on topics for and the structure of the 2nd Glasgow Dialogue6 and 
the workshops referred to in paragraph 7(a) above;  
(d) Invite United Nations agencies, intergovernmental organizations, and bilateral, 
multilateral and international f inancial  institutions to submit inputs on how they might 
enhance access to and/or the speed, scope and scale of availability of finance for activities relevant to addressing loss and damage, including potential limitations and barriers and options for addressing them;  
8. Further decide  that the activities and considerations referred to in this decision will 
be undertaken taking into account the discussions at the 2
nd and 3rd Glasgow Dialogues, to 
take place at the fifty -eighth (June 2023) and sixtieth (June 2024) sessions of the Subsidiary 
Body for Implementation respectively;  
9. Decide that the 2nd and 3rd Glasgow Dialogues will build on the 1st Glasgow Dialogue, 
held at the fifty -sixth session of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation, and that the 2nd 
Dialogue  shall focus on the operationalization of the new funding arrangements  established 
in paragraph 2 above  and the fund established in  paragraph 3 above as well as on maximizing 
support from existing funding arrangements relevant for, inter alia, responding to economic and non -economic losses, slow onset events and extreme weather events, and that they will 
inform the work of the Transitional Committee;  
10. Request  the Chair of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to provide a summary 
report on each Glasgow Dialogue no later than four weeks thereafter;  
11. Invite the United Nations Secretary -General to convene the principals of international 
financial institutions and  other relevant entities  with a view to identifying the most effective 
ways to provide funding to respond to needs related to addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change;  
12. Also invite international financial institutions  to consider, at the 2023 Spring Meetings 
of the World Bank Group and the International Monetary Fund, the potential for such 
institutions to contribute to funding arrangements, including new and innovative approaches, responding to loss and damage  associa ted with the adverse effects of climate change; 
13. Reiterate  decision 1/CMA.3, paragraph 64, in which developed country Parties, the 
operating entities of the Financial Mechanism, United Nations entities and intergovernmental organizations and other bilateral  and multilateral institutions, including non -governmental 
organizations and private sources, are urged to provide enhanced and additional support for activities addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change;  
14. Request the President of the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -seventh session, 
in collaboration with the incoming President of the Conference of the Parties at its twenty-eighth session, to convene ministerial consultations prior to the twenty -eighth session of  the 
Conference of the Parties and the  fifth session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement to advance consideration and understanding of a possible outcome on this matter at that session;  
 
 5 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx .  
 6 See d ecision 1/CMA.3, para. 73.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
14  15. Also request  the secretariat to prepare a synthesis report on the outcomes of th e 
activities and deliverables referred to in paragraphs 7(b), 11, 12 and 14 above to inform the 
recommendations to be developed by the Transitional Committee ; 
16. Decide that the secretariat s hall support and facilitate  the work of the Transitional 
Committee ; 
17. Take note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 2 –16 above ; 
18. Request  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources .FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
 15 Annex  
 Terms of reference for the Transitional Committee on the 
operationalization of the new funding arrangements for 
responding to loss and damage and the associated fund  
I. Mandate  
1. The Transitional Committee will make recommendations for consideration by the 
Confe rence of the Parties (COP) at its twenty -eighth session (November –December 2023) 
and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement 
(CMA) at its fifth session  (November –December 2023) in accordance with paragraph s 4–5 
of this decision.  
2. The Transitional Committee will serve as a coordination mechanism that guides and 
oversees, as appropriate, the activities referred to in paragraph 7 of this decision.  
3. The work of the Transitional Committee will be concluded with the adoption no later 
than at COP 28 and CMA 5 of decision(s)  related  to the new funding arrangements 
responding to loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change, including a focus on addressing loss and damage, and the fund established in paragraph 3 of 
this decision . 
II. Composition  
4. The Transitional Co mmittee shall have 24 members, to be nominated no later than 15 
December 2022,  comprising 10 members  from developed country Parties and 14  members 
from developing country Parties with geographical representation as follows:  
(a) Three members from Africa, inclu ding a representative of the President of 
COP 27;  
(b) Three members from Asia  and the Pacific, including a representative of the 
incoming President of COP 28;  
(c) Three members from Latin America and the Caribbean;  
(d) Two members from small island developing States;  
(e) Two members from the least developed countries ; 
(f) One member from a developing country Party not included in the categories 
listed above.  
III. Modalities  of work  
5. The Transitional Committee shall be chaired by two co- chairs, one from a developed 
country Party and one from a developing country Party.  
6. The Transitional Committee will hold at least three meetings.  
7. The UNFCCC Executive Secretary, in consultation with the President of COP 27, will 
convene the 1st meeting of the Transitional Committee  no later than on 31 March 2023.  
8. Recommendations  of the Transitional Committee shall be adopted  by consensus.  
9. The Transitional Committee  will be guided by the best available science in conducting 
its work . 
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 202 2 FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
16    Decision 3/CP.2 7 
  Sharm el -Sheikh j oint work on implementation of climate 
action on agriculture and  food security  
The Conference of the Parties ,  
Recalling  Article 2 of the Convention,  
Also recalling  decision 2/CP.17, paragraphs 75– 77, 
Further  recalling  decision 4/CP.23,  
Recognizing  the fundamental priority of safeguarding food security and ending 
hunger, and the particular vulnerabilities of food product ion systems to the adverse impacts 
of climate change,  
Also recognizing that the impact of the coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic and other 
global challenges has exposed the limited resilience of global food systems to the adverse 
impacts of climate change and the limited progress towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals and ensuring food security,  
Acknowledging that the increasing frequency of extreme weather events has exposed 
millions of people, especially small- scale farmers, those from low -income households, 
indigenous peoples, women and youth in developing countries , to acute food and water 
insecurity  and that, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United 
Nations, more than 800 million people face hunger every year,
1 a figure set to increase as a 
consequence of climate change,  
Highlighting  that farmers, including smallholders and pastoralists, are stewards of the 
land and are inclined to apply sustainable land management approaches, and acknowledging that their vulne rability to climate change presents a challenge in fulfilling this important role 
and that policy responses in agriculture are more likely to succeed if they consider the role of farmers as key agents of change,  
Highlighting  that each food production system has its own challenges and that 
solutions must be context -specific and take into account national circumstances, especially if 
they are to be scaled up,  
1. Welcomes  the progress of and outcomes achieved by the subsidiary bodies in jointly 
addressing issues related to agriculture
2 and the Koronivia road map;3 
2. Takes note  of the following recommendations on the different workshop reports under 
the Koronivia joint work on agriculture identified and agreed in conclusions of the subsidiary bodies,
4 recognizing that related policies and their implementation are context- specific and 
take into account national circumstances:  
(a) Recognized that information provided during the workshops and in the 
workshop reports5 and other information provide a mapping of activities and mandates of 
UNFCCC constituted bodies;  
 
 1 Food and A griculture Organization of the United Nations , International Fund for A gricultural 
Development , United Nations Children’s F und, World Food Programme and W orld Health 
Organization . 2022. The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022: Repurposing food 
and agricultural policies to make healthy diets more af fordable . Rome: F ood and A griculture 
Organization of the United Nations . Available at https://www.fao.org/documents/card/en/c/cc0639en.  
 2 Pursuant to decision 4/CP.23, para. 1.  
 3 Contained in annex I to documents FCCC/SBI/2018/9 and FCCC/SBSTA/2018/4.  
 4 FCCC/SBI/2019/9, para. 44, FCCC/SBSTA/2019/2,  para. 42, FCCC/SBI/2019/20, para s. 28–29, 
FCCC/SBSTA/2019/5, par as. 16–17, FCCC/SBI/2021/16 , paras . 46–49, FCCC/SBSTA/2021/3, 
paras. 47 –50, FCCC/SBI/2022/10, paras. 56–57, and FCCC/SBSTA/2022/6, paras. 27 –28. 
 5 FCCC/SB/2019/INF.1, FCCC/SB/2019/1, FCCC/SB/2019/2, FCCC/SB/2020/1, FCCC/SB/2021/1, 
FCCC/SB/2021/2, and FCCC/SB/2021/3 and Add.1.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
 17 (b) Encouraged the continued involvement of constituted bodies and financing 
entities in the Koronivia  joint work on agriculture, highlighting the potential for creating 
interlinkages that lead to enhanced action and improvements in implementation;  
(c) Recognized that some modalities for implementation already exist and invited 
Parties to scale up implementation;  
(d) Also recognized the importance of the continued involvement of scientific and 
technical knowledge in transforming the agriculture sector, enabling conditions, the crucial 
role of farmers, youth, local communities and indigenous peoples, including gende r 
considerations, and of meeting the needs of farmers and food systems;  
(e) Welcomed the presentation made by the Green Climate Fund on its work on 
issues relating to agriculture, and also welcomed the subsequent clarification by the 
secretariat of the process  for Parties to submit their views to the Standing Committee on 
Finance, in line with existing procedures, on elements to be taken into account in developing 
guidance for the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism;  
(f) Recognized that various tools are available for assessing and monitoring 
adaptation and its co -benefits, but existing tools could benefit from further adjustment and 
new tools could be developed for country- specific circumstances, while taking into 
consideration the importance of sharing best practices among countries and other stakeholders and the important role of science, technology and capacity- building in 
facilitating data collection and adaptation assessment; 
(g) Also recognized that issues relating to soil carbon, soil health and soil fe rtility, 
as well as sustainable soil and integrated water management, are context -specific and, taking 
into account countries’ circumstances, should be dealt with in a holistic and inclusive manner to realize the full potential of increased productivity in  contributing to food security, 
adaptation and adaptation co -benefits as well as enhancing carbon sinks;  
(h) Further recognized that soil and nutrient management practices and the optimal 
use of nutrients, including organic fertilizer and enhanced manure management, lie at the core of climate- resilient, sustainable food production systems and can contribute to global 
food security;  
(i) Recognized that livestock management systems are very vulnerable to the 
impacts of climate change and that sustainably managed live stock systems have high 
adaptive capacity and resilience to climate change while playing broad roles in safeguarding food and nutrition security, livelihoods, sustainability, nutrient cycling and carbon 
management;  
(j) Noted that improving sustainable producti on and animal health, aiming to 
reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the livestock sector while enhancing sinks on pasture 
and grazing land, can contribute to achieving long- term climate objectives, taking into 
account different systems and national circumst ances;  
(k) Recognized that socioeconomic and food security dimensions are critical when 
dealing with climate change in agriculture and food systems;  
(l) Also recognized the fundamental priority of safeguarding food security and 
ending hunger by designing sustainable and climate -resilient agricultural systems, applying 
a systemic approach in line with the long- term global climate objectives, further recognizing 
the importance of long- term investment in agriculture focused on this objective; 
(m) Noted the importance of s caling up support to enhance action on safeguarding 
food and nutrition security and ending hunger, aiming for inclusive, sustainable and climate -
resilient agricultural systems, taking into consideration the vulnerability of agriculture to the impacts of cl imate change;  
(n) Recognized the need to improve the enabling environment for mobilizing 
resources for implementing action at the local, national and international level;  
(o) Noted the importance of considering sustainable land and water management 
for agriculture  in a systemic and integrated manner informed by scientific, local and 
indigenous knowledge implemented in a participatory and inclusive manner and taking into FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
18  consideration regional, national and local circumstances to deliver a range of multiple 
benefits , where applicable, such as adaptation, adaptation co -benefits and mitigation, to 
ensure food security and nutrition;  
(p) Highlighted ‘no regrets’ options, such as those mentioned in the workshop 
report s and avoiding maladaptation;  
(q) Noted that implementing sustainable approaches can render multiple benefits 
for society, such as improved water quality, higher biodiversity and increased soil organic 
matter, and also noted the value of incorporating diversification, recycling and efficiency, 
and supporting synergies within agricultural systems; 
(r) Recognized the importance of increased access to international resources, such 
as finance, capacity -building and technology development and transfer, from a variety of 
sources to implement these approaches;  
(s) Also r ecognized the need to scale up the implementation of best practices, 
innovations and technologies that increase resilience and sustainable production in agricultural systems according to national circumstances in an inclusive and participatory way tha t includes farmers, pastoralists, indigenous peoples, local and vulnerable 
communities, women and youth and is informed by scientific, local and indigenous knowledge;  
(t) Noted that many approaches with high potential for adaptation, adaptation co-
benefits and  mitigation relate to land and food systems, such as conserving and restoring 
ecosystems, improving sustainability of agricultural practices and reducing food loss and waste from sustainable food systems, and have significant positive direct and indirect l inks 
with biodiversity and ecosystem services, food security and the Sustainable Development Goals;  
(u) Recognized that scaling up implementation requires enhanced knowledge -
sharing on best practices, access to finance, technology development and transfer, and capacity -building;  
(v) Also r ecognized that innovative policy and social approaches to scaling up, 
such as institutional arrangements, partnerships and farmers’ empowerment, can incentivize 
implementation and support an enabling environment for scaling up bes t practices;  
(w) Noted that successful policy innovations can include extension services and 
farmers’ self- organization;  
3. Recognizes  that workshops under the Koronivia joint work on agriculture provide 
useful information on the latest agricultural research, nat ional circumstances, the realities 
faced by farmers, challenges and opportunities relating to agricultural research and 
development, and ways of mobilizing climate action in the area of agriculture and food security, and have thus been crucial for building  a common understanding of relevant 
challenges and opportunities ; 
4. Recalls  that the Koronivia road map, workshops under the Koronivia joint work on 
agriculture and reports thereon, as well as the conclusions of the subsidiary bodies on those reports, have i mproved awareness of and knowledge on the impacts of climate change on 
agriculture,  helped to focus the work of institutions, organizations and stakeholders working 
on matters of agriculture and climate change and led to new activities and initiatives in t his 
area;  
5. Welcomes  the participation of representatives of constituted bodies, the operating 
entities of the Financial Mechanism,
6 the Adaptation Fund, the Special Climate Change Fund, 
the Least Developed Countries Fund and observer organizations in works hops under the 
Koronivia joint work on agriculture ; 
6. Acknowledges  that the Koronivia joint work on agriculture has highlighted the need 
to identify modalities for addressing challenges in and exploring opportunities for accessing existing means of implement ation ; 
 
 6 The Global Environment Facility and the Green Climate Fund.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
 19 7. Also acknowledges  the need to strengthen work under relevant institutional 
arrangements under the Convention in order to consolidate and advance work on addressing 
issues related to agriculture ; 
8. Further acknowledges  that the Koronivia  joint work on agriculture has highlighted 
the need for enhanced climate action on agriculture and food security, and for enhanced coordination with and among actors outside the UNFCCC ; 
9. Emphasizes  the urgent need to scale up action and support with regard to capacity -
building, access to finance, and technology development and transfer with a view to enhancing the adaptive capacity and resilience and reducing the vulnerability of farmers and other vulnerable groups, especially small -scale farmers, women and youth, in relation to 
climate change;  
10. Urges  Parties, relevant organizations and other groups to increase their efforts in 
relation to promoting sustainable agriculture, including by strengthening the role of indigenous peoples and local communities, and pa rticularly women and youth, with a view 
to eradicating hunger and poverty while ensuring food security;  
11. Underscores  the importance of constituted bodies and the operating entities of the 
Financial Mechanism taking into account the conclusions of the subsidiary bodies referred to in paragraph 2 above in implementing their actions and workplans, according to their mandates;  
12. Invites  Parties to consider policies, actions and measures relevant to implementing the 
conclusions referred to in paragraph 2 above;  
13. Also invites  the current and future Presidencies  of the Conference of the Parties , 
high- level champions and other actors, when promoting climate initiatives, to take into 
account the conclusions referred to in paragraph 2 above in considering issues related t o 
agriculture, and to promote the sharing of information and knowledge on best practices and means of implementation;  
14. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice and the 
Subsidiary Body for Implementation to establish the four -year Sharm el -Sheikh joint work 
on implementation of climate action on agriculture and food security, including 
implementation of  the outcomes of the Koronivia  joint work on agriculture and previous 
activities addressing issues related to agriculture,
7 as well as future topics, recognizing that 
solutions are context -specific and take into account national circumstances, with the 
following objectives: 
(a) Promoting a holistic approach to addressing issues related to agriculture and 
food security, taking into consideration regional, national and local circumstances, in order 
to deliver a range of multiple benefits, where applicable, such as adaptation, adaptation co-benefits and mitigation, recognizing that adaptation is a priority for vulnerable groups, 
including women, indigenous peoples and small -scale farmers;  
(b) Enhancing coherence, synergies, coordination, communication and interaction 
between Parties, constituted b odies and workstreams, the operating entities of the Financial 
Mechanism, the Adaptation Fund, the Least Developed Countries Fund and the Special Climate Change Fund in order to facilitate the implementation of action to address issues related to agricultu re and food security;  
(c) Promoting synergies and strengthening engagement, collaboration and 
partnerships among national, regional and international organizations and other relevant stakeholders, as well as under relevant processes and initiatives, in order t o enhance the 
implementation of climate action to address issues related to agriculture and food security;  
(d) Providing support and technical advice to Parties, constituted bodies and the 
operating entities of the Financial Mechanism on climate action to addr ess issues related to 
 
 7 See documents FCCC/SBSTA/2014/INF.2, FCCC/SBSTA/2015/INF.6, FCCC/SBSTA/2015/INF.7, 
FCCC/SBSTA/2016/INF.5 and FCCC/SBSTA/2016/INF.6.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
20  agriculture and food security, respecting the Party- driven approach and in accordance with 
their respective procedures and mandates;  
(e) Enhancing research and development on issues related to agriculture and food 
security and consolidating and sharing related scientific, technological and other information, 
knowledge (including local and indigenous knowledge), experience, innovations and best practices;  
(f) Evaluating progress in implementing and cooperating on climate action to 
address issue s related to agriculture and food security;  
(g) Sharing information and knowledge on developing and implementing national 
policies, plans and strategies related to climate change, while recognizing country -specific 
needs and contexts;  
15. Also requests the secretariat to support the joint work referred to in paragraph 14 
above by:  
(a) Preparing an annual synthesis report on the work undertaken by constituted 
bodies and financial and other entities under the Convention, as well as by relevant international organizations , on activities related to the joint work referred to in paragraph 14 
above;  
(b) Holding in -session workshops in hybrid format, facilitating both virtual and 
in-person participation, on agreed topics related to agriculture and food security at the first 
regula r sessions of the subsidiary bodies each year and inviting representatives of the 
constituted bodies under the Convention, the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism, the Adaptation Fund, the Least Developed Countries Fund and the Special Climate Change Fund and observers to them;  
16. Decides  to establish the Sharm el- Sheikh online portal under the joint work referred 
to in paragraph 14 above for sharing information on projects, initiatives and policies for increasing opportunities for implementation of climate action to address issues related to agriculture and food security;  
17. Invites  Parties and observers to submit by 27 March 2023 via the submission portal
8 
views on the elements of the joint work referred to in paragraphs 14– 15 above, including 
views o n topics for the workshops referred to in paragraph 15(b) above, for consideration by 
the subsidiary bodies at their fifty -eighth sessions (June 2023);  
18. Also invites  Parties and observers to submit by 27 March 2023 via the submission 
portal views on the operationalization of the portal referred to in paragraph 16 above for consideration by the subsidiary bodies at their fifty- eighth sessions;  
19. Further invites  Parties, United Nations organizations and other relevant institutions, 
agencies and entities, the research community, the private sector, civil society and farmers organizations, among others and as appropriate, to strengthen cooperation, collaboration and partnerships in relation to the joint work referred to in paragraph 14 above, including with a view to fighting hunger on the ground, addressing in particular the needs of women, children, 
youth, indigenous peoples and local communities;  
20. Requests  the subsidiary bodies to report to the Conference of the Parties at its 
thirty -first session (2026) on the progress and outcomes of the joint work referred to in 
paragraph 14 above;  
21. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraph 15 above;  
22. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
10
th plenary meeting  
20 November 202 2 
 
 
 8 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx . FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
 21   Decision 4/CP.27  
  Revision of the modalities and procedures for international 
assessment and review  
The Conference of the  Parties ,  
Recalling  decisions 1/CP.16, 2/CP. 17, 18/CP.22, 1/CP.24 and 18/ CMA.1,   
1. Decides  that the modalities and procedures for international assessment and review, 
contained in annex II to decision 2/CP.17, shall continue to be used for conducting the 
technical review and multilateral assessment for Parties included in Annex I to the Convention, taking into account decision 1/CP.24, paragraphs 39, 41 and 44;  
2. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to consider undertaking no later 
than at its first session of 2028, as appropriate, the review of the modalities and proce dures 
for international assessment and review on the basis of experience of reporting, technical expert review and multilateral assessment.  
9
th plenary meeting  
17 November 202 2 
 FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
22    Decision 5/CP.27  
  Revision of the modalities and guidelines for international 
consultation and analysis  
The Conference of the  Parties ,  
Recalling  decisions,  1/CP.16, 2/CP.17, 1/CP.24 and 18/CMA.1,  
1. Decides  that the modalities and guidelines for international consultation and analysis, 
contained in annex IV to decision 2/CP.17, shall continue to be used for conducting the 
technical analysis and facilitative sharing of views for Parties not included in Annex I to the Convention, taking into account decision 1/CP.24, paragraphs 39, 41 and 44;  
2. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to consider undertaking no later 
than at its first session of 2028, as appr opriate, the review of the modalities and guidelines 
for international consultation and analysis on the basis of experience of reporting, technical analysis and facilitative sharing of views.  
9
th plenary meeting  
17 November 202 2 
 FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
 23   Decision 6/CP.27  
  Revision of the UNFCCC reporting guidelines on annual 
inventories for Parties included in Annex I to the Convention  
The Conference of the  Parties ,  
Recalling Article 4, paragraph 1, Article 10, paragraph 2, and Article 12, paragraph 1, 
of the Convention,  
Also recalling decisions 24/CP.19 and 1/CP.24, in particular paragraph 42,  
Further recalling decisions 18/CMA.1 and 5/CMA.3,  
1. Decides that, when reporting th eir annual greenhouse gas inventories under the 
Convention in accordance with the “Guidelines for the preparation of national 
communications by Parties included in Annex I to the Convention, Part I: UNFCCC reporting guidelines on annual greenhouse gas inventories” for the 2024 submission onward, Parties included in Annex I to the Convention that are not Parties to the Paris Agreement that are using an approach to reporting emissions and removals from harvested wood products other than the production approac h
1 shall also provide supplementary information on emissions 
and removals from harvested wood products estimated using the production approach, either in their national inventory report, or as per paragraph 44 of decision 1/CP.24 and using the common reporting tables set out in annex I to decision 5/CMA.3;  
2. Also decides that the global warming potential values, excluding the value for fossil 
methane used by Parties included in Annex I to the Convention to calculate the carbon 
dioxide equivalence of anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions by sources and removals by sinks in their reporting under the Convention shall be those based on the effects of greenhouse gases over a 100- year time horizon listed in table 8.A.1 of the contribution of Working 
Group I to th e Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
2 
and that these values shall be applied by no later than 31 December 2024;  
3. Further decides that Parties included in Annex I to the Convention may in addition 
also use other metric s (e.g. global temperature potential) to report supplemental information 
on aggregate emissions and removals of greenhouse gases, expressed in carbon dioxide equivalence; i n such cases, they shall provide in their national inventory report information 
on the values of the metrics used and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change assessment report from which they were sourced;  
4. Requests the secretariat to enable, by 30 January 2023, an option to the current CRF 
Reporter for generating common reporting format tables using the 100- year time -horizon 
global warming potential values, excluding the value for fossil methane, listed in table 8.A.1 in the contribution of Working Group I to the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Cha nge;  
5. Notes that the final version of the reporting tool for electronic reporting of the common 
reporting tables referred to in decision 5/CMA.3, paragraph 8, is not expected to be available for use until 30 June 2024;  
6. Decides to change the deadline for  the submission by Parties included in Annex I to 
the Convention that are Parties to the Paris Agreement of their annual greenhouse gas inventories due in 2024 to 31 December 2024;  
 
 1 As set out in vol. 4, chap. 12, of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 2006 IPCC 
 Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories .  
 2 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. 2013. Climate Change  2013: The Physical Science 
Basis. Contribution of Working Group I to the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change . TF Stocker, D Qin, G -K Plattner, et al. (eds.). Cambridge and New York: 
Cambridge University Press. Availabl e at http://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar5/wg1 . 
 FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
24  7. Requests the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice to r evisit this 
matter at its sixty -first session (November 2024) should there be any unplanned delays in the 
development of the tool referred to in paragraph 5 above.  
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 202 2 
 FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
 25   Decision 7/CP.27  
  Common metrics used to calculate the carbon dioxide 
equivalence of anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions by sources and removals by sinks  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  Article 4, paragraph 1, Article  10, paragraph 2 , and Article  12, paragraph 1, 
of the Convention, 
Also recalling  decisions 3/CP.1, 4/CP.1, 9/CP.2, 10/CP.2, 12/CP.4, 3/CP.5, 4/CP.5, 
8/CP.5, 32/CP.7, 17/CP.8, 18/CP.8, 14/CP.11, 2/CP.17, 15/CP.17, 19/CP.18, 24/CP.19,  
1/CP.21, 1/CP.24, 6/CP.25, 18/CMA.1 and 5/CMA.3,  
1. Decides  that, until it adopts a further decision on the matter, the global warming 
potential values used by Parties in their reporting under the Convention to calculate the 
carbon dioxide equivalence of anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions by sources and removals by sinks shall be based on the effects of greenhouse gases over a 100- year time -
horizon as listed in table 8.A.1 in appen dix 8.A to the contribution of Working Group I to the 
Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change,
1 excluding the 
value for fossil methane;  
2. Also decides  that all Parties shall start using the global warming potential values 
referred to in paragraph 1 above  no later than on 31 December 2024 for the purpose of 
meeting their  reporting requirements under the Convention;  
3. Further decides  to consider the need to update the common metric values referred to 
in this decision no later than in 2028, concurrently with the review of the modalities, procedures and guidelines contained in the annex to decision 18/CMA.1;  
4. Decides  that each Party to the Convention may in addition also use other metrics  (e.g. 
global temperature potential) to report supplemental information on aggregate greenhouse 
gas emissions and removals, expressed in carbon dioxide equivalent, and that in such case the Party shall provide in its reporting under the Convention information on the values of the other metrics used and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change assessment report from which they were sourced.  
9
th plenary meeting  
17 November 202 2 
 
 
 1 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. 2013. Climate Change 2013: The Physical Science 
Basis. Contribution of Working Group I to the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change . TF Stocker, D Qin, G -K Plattner, et al. (eds.). Cambridge and New York: 
Cambridge University Press . Available at http://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar5/wg1 .
 FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
26    Decision 8/CP.27  
  Report of the Adaptation Committee for 2022 and review of 
the progress, effectiveness and performance of the 
Adaptation Committee  
The Conference of the Parties  
1. Welcomes  the work of the Adaptation Committee in 2022 and takes note  of the report 
of the Adaptation Committee covering its work between September 2021 and September  
2022, contained in document FCCC/SB/2022/5 and Add.1 and Add.1/ Corr.1  and Add. 2, and 
the recommendations therein;  
2. Also t akes note  of the progress of the Adaptation Committee in improving its outreach 
and communication efforts and encourages  the Committee to make further use of platforms  
for outreach, communication in languages  other th an English and the organization of regional 
events and knowledge dialogues  as way s to improve the dissemination, understanding and 
use of its  knowledge products by organizations and practitioners within and outside the 
UNFCCC process and in all geographica l regions ; 
3. Notes that considerations of the review of the progress, effectiveness and performance 
of the Adaptation Committee  could not be completed at this session and will therefore 
continue at the fifty -eighth session s of the subsidiary bodies (June 2023);  
4. Encourages  Parties to make available sufficient resources for the successful and 
timely implementation of the flexible workplan of the Adaptation Committee for 
2022 –2024.1 
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 202 2 
 
 
 1 FCCC/SB/2021/6, annex.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
 27   Decision 9/CP.27  
  National adaptation plans  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  decisions 1/CP.16, 3/CP.17, 5/CP.17, 12/CP.18, 18/CP.19, 3/CP.20 , 
1/CP.21, 4/CP.21, 6/CP.22, 8/CP.24, 7/CP.25, 1/CP.26 and 1/CMA.3,  
1. Welcomes  the reports for 2020 –2022 on progress in the process to formulate and 
implement national adaptation plans1 and takes note of other relevant documents;2 
2. Welcomes  the information provided by the Adaptation Committee3 and the Least 
Developed Countries Expert Group4 on gaps and needs related to the process to formulate 
and implement national adaptation plans and progress in implementing national adaptation 
plans;5 
3. Also welcomes  the national adaptation plans submitted in 2021– 2022 by Cabo Verde, 
the Central African Republic, Chad, Costa Rica, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Liberia, Madagascar , Niger  and Sierra Leone on NAP Central,
6 which brings the total number 
of countries with  submitted national adaptation plans to 40, and the sectoral national 
adaptation plans submitted by other Parties;7 
4. Express es concern  at the large number of countries that have not been able to submit 
their first national adaptation plan and in this respect notes  the challenges, complexities and 
delays experienced by developing country Parties in accessing funding and support from the Green Climate Fund for the formulation and implementation of national adaptation plans, particularly in relation to the submission and review of proposals for funding;  
5. Invites  the Adaptation Committee and the Least Developed Countries Expert Group, 
in line with their mandates, to continue formulating recommendations on ways to facilitate the mobilization of support for the formulation and implementation of national adaptation plans with a view to addressing the challenges referred to in paragraph 4 above  and to submit 
the recommendations to the Standing Committee on Finance for consideration;  
6. Welcomes  the work of the Adaptation Committee and the Least Developed Countries 
Expert Group on gaps and needs related to the process to formulate and implement national 
adaptation plans, including the needs referred to in annex I I to document FCCC/SBI/2019/ 5,
8 
and their work on ways to assist with the implementation of national adaptation plans, as requested by the Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its forty- seventh session;
9 
7. Requests  the Adaptation Committee and the Least Developed Countries Expert Group 
to continue to identify the priority gaps and needs of developing countries relat ed to the 
process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans, the progress of each country in this process and any obstacles and challenges faced;  
 
 1 FCCC/SBI/2020/INF.13/Rev.1, FCCC/SBI/2021/INF.7 and FCCC/SBI/ 2022/19.  
 2 The reports of the Adaptation Committee for 2019 –2022, available at 
https://unfccc.int/topics/resilience/resources/documents -of-the-adaptation -committee , and the meeting 
reports of the Least Developed Countries Expert Group f or 2019 –2022, available at 
https://unfccc.int/topics/resilience/resources/documents -on-the -ldc-expert -group.  
 3 See documents FCCC/SB/2019/3, paras. 54 –56, an d FCCC/SB/2020/2, para. 67.  
 4 See documents FCCC/SBI/2019/16, chap. III.G  and annex I; FCCC/SBI/2020/6, chap. IV.F and 
annex II; FCCC/SBI/2020/14, chap. III.H and annex II; FCCC/SBI/2021/6, chap. IV.F; and 
FCCC/SBI/2021/13, chap. III.F.  
 5 FCCC/SBI/2022/6 , chap. IV.C.2.  
 6 Available at https://napcentral.org/submitted -naps. 
 7 Available at https://napcentral.org/sectoral -naps . 
 8 In response to decision 8/CP.24, paras . 17–18, and decision 7/CP.25, para . 3. 
 9 FCCC/SBI/2017/19 , para. 73. FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
28  8. Also requests  the Adaptation Committee and the Least Developed Countries Expert 
Group to enhance their work in  addressing the priority gaps and needs, obstacles and 
challenges identified through their work referred to in paragraph 5 above  and to include 
information thereon in their reports;  
9. Further requests the Adaptation Committee and the Least Develop ed Countries 
Expert Group to organize training for developing country Parties on addressing identified 
gaps and needs, which could be held in conjunction with the NAP Expo, the Adaptation Forum or other events outlined in their respective work programmes;  
10. Invites  other UNFCCC constituted bodies and relevant organizations to provide 
information to the Adaptation Committee and the Least Developed Countries Expert Group on activities that have the aim of addressing gaps and needs related to the process to form ulate 
and implement national adaptation plans, including information on the regions and countries in which the constituted bodies and organizations provide support;  
11. Notes that the technical resources developed and the scientific resources synthesized 
by the Adaptation Committee and the Least Developed Countries Expert Group can assist developing countries in addressing gaps and needs related to the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans, including in assessing adaptation needs, applyin g 
regional approaches to adaptation planning, promoting linkages between adaptation and development, and strengthening gender considerations in national adaptation plans;  
12. Also notes  that the best available science, as well as traditional, indigenous and lo cal 
knowledge, as appropriate, should be taken into account in addressing the priority gaps and needs referred to in paragraph 7 above  and in enhancing  the process to  formulate and 
implement national adaptation plans for developing countries;  
13. Notes with serious concern the findings on adaptation gaps in the contribution of 
Working Group II to the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change;
10 
14. Recognizes  that long -term planning and accelerated implementation of adaptation 
actions, particularly in the next decade, is important for  closing  adaptation gaps;  
15. Also recognizes  that maladaptation can be avoided through  flexible, multisectoral, 
inclusive and long- term planning and implementation of adaptation actions that benefit many 
sectors and systems;  
16. Take s note of the support available to developing countr y Part ies for formulating and 
implementing national adaptatio n plans and recognizes  the importance of scaling up this 
support;  
17. Encourages  relevant organizations to continue coordinating support related to the 
process to formulate, update  and implement national adaptation plans and to continue sharing 
lessons learned;  
18. Notes that the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans is crucial 
to informing the assessment of progress towards achieving the global goal on adaptation, including through the Glasgow –Sharm el -Sheikh work programme on the global goal on 
adaptation and the global stocktake . 
10
th plenary meeting  
20 November 2 022 
 
 
 10 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change . 2022. Climate Change 2022: Impacts, Adaptation, and 
Vulnerability. Contribution of Working Group II to the Sixth Assessment Report of the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.  H Pörtner, D Roberts, M Tignor, et al. (eds.). 
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Available at https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg2 . FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
 29   Decision 10/CP.27 
  Matters relating to the least developed countries  
The Conference of the Parties and the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement , 
Recalling  decisions 5/CP.7, 29/CP.7, 7/CP.9, 4/CP.10, 4/CP.11, 8/CP.13, 6/CP.16, 
5/CP.17, 12/CP.18, 3/CP.20, 1/CP.21, 19/CP.21, 16/CP.24, 7/CP.25, 15/CP.26, 11/CMA.1 
and 19/CMA.1,  
Having considered the report on the 42nd meeting of the Least Developed Countries 
Expert Group,1 
Underscoring the importance of continued implementation by the Green Climate 
Fund of the mandate given to it in decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 46,  
1. Welcome the progress of  the Least Developed Countries Expert Group in 
implementing its work programme for 2022– 2023,2 including its provision of support to the 
least developed countries for developing project concepts for implementing adaptation actions associated with the priorities in their national adaptation plans;
3 
2. Also welcome  the successful conduct by the Least Developed Countries Expert Group 
of the national adaptation plan writing workshop for Asia -Pacific least developed countries 
held in Siem Reap, Cambodia, from 12 to 15 July 2022 and the NAP Expo held in Gaborone, Botswana,  from 22 to 26 August 2022; 
3. Express their  appreciation to the Government of Cambodia for hosting the workshop 
referred to in paragraph 2 above  and the Government of Botswana for hosting the 42
nd 
meeting  of the Least Developed Countries Expert Group and NAP Expo 2022 and express 
their  gratitude  to the Government of Ireland for providing financial support for the work of 
the Least Developed Countries Expert Group;  
4. Express their  appreciation to the Le ast Developed Countries Expert Group and the 
secretariat for their valuable work in supporting adaptation in the least developed countries;  
5. Also express their  appreciation to the organizations that contributed  to designing and 
conducting the workshop referred to in paragraph 2 above ; 
6. Welcome the progress of the Least Developed Countries Expert Group in developing 
technical guidelines for the implementation of national adaptation plans4 and note that those 
guidelines may help to address gaps and needs relating to the formulation  and implementation 
of national adaptation plans5 and for informing the design and provision of support for the 
implementation of national adaptation plans;  
7. Also n ote the limited progres s of the least developed countries on the process to 
formulate and implement national adaptation plans and the need for enhanced support of the least developed countries to advance the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans;  
8. Further note that, as at 14 November  2022, 17 of the 46 least developed countries had 
submitted a national adaptation plan since the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans was established in 2010, and of those 17 least developed countries with a 
national adaptation plan, 14 had accessed funding for implementing adaptation actions associated with the priorities identified therein; 
 
 1 FCCC/SBI/2022/18.  
 2 FCCC/SBI/2022/6, annex III.  
 3 FCCC/SBI/2022/18, paras. 21–23. 
 4 FCCC/SBI/2022/18 , paras. 32 –35. 
 5 See https://unfccc.int/node/210550 . FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
30  9. Reiterate  and recall  decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 46,  and note decision 16/CP.27  in 
relation to enhancing support to the least developed countries for the formulation and 
implementation of national adaptation plans;  
10. Underscore  the importance of developing project pipelines and proposals for 
implementing adaptation actions associated w ith the priorities in the national adaptation plans 
of the least developed countries and encourage  relevant organizations, as well as operating 
entities of the F inancial Mechanism, to enhance support to the least developed countries in 
this regard;  
11. Note wi th appreciation the financial pledges, totalling USD 70.6 million, made by the 
Governments of Denmark, Finland, Germany, Ireland, Slovenia, Sweden  and Switzerland 
and the government of the Walloon Region of Belgium  to the Least Developed Countries 
Fund and urge additional contributions to the Fund;  
12. Request the Least Developed Countries Expert Group to enhance the support provided 
to the least developed countries for aligning national adaptation plans and nationally 
determined contributions;  
13. Also request the  Least Developed Countries Expert Group to continue to support the 
least developed countries in integrating gender considerations into the formulation and 
implementation of national adaptation plans;  
14. Welcome the development by the Least Developed Countries  Expert Group of its draft 
rules of procedure;  
15. Adopt  the rules of procedure of the Least  Developed Countries Expert Group 
contained in the annex;  
16. Encourage  the Least Developed Countries  Expert Group to prioritize the 
implementation of the elements of its mandate in accordance with the needs of the least developed countries and the availability of resources;  
17. Invite  Parties and relevant organizations to continue to provide resources to support 
implementation of the work programme of the Least Developed Countries Expert Group.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
 31 Annex  
Rules of procedure of the Least Developed Countries Expert 
Group  
I. Scope  
1. These rules of procedure shall apply to the Least Developed Countries Expert Group 
(LEG ) in conjunction with 5/CP.7, 29/CP.7, 7/CP.9, 4/CP.10, 4/CP.11, 8/CP.13, 6/CP.16, 
5/CP.17, 12/CP.18, 3/CP. 20, 1/CP.21, 19/CP.21, 16/CP.24, 7/CP.25, 11/CMA.1, 19/CMA.1 
and 15/CP.26, as well as any other relevant decisions of the Conference of the Parties and 
the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of Parties to the Paris Agreement.  
II. Definition of te rms 
2. For the purpose of these rules of procedure, the following terms and definitions shall 
be used:  
(a) “Convention” means the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change;  
(b) “Chair” means the member of the LEG elected as Chair  of the LEG;  
(c) “Vice- Chair”  means the member of the LEG elected as Vice- Chair of the LEG;  
(d) “Rapporteur” means the member of the LEG elected as Rapporteur of the LEG;  
(e) “Secretariat” means the secretariat referred to in Article 8 of the Convention;  
(f) “Meeting” means the meeting of the LEG ; 
(g) “Observer” means any entity the LEG may invite to its meetings.  
III. Membership, term limits, nomination and rotation of 
members  
3. Pursuant to decision 29/CP.7 and as amended by decision 15/CP.26, paragraph 18, 
taking into account the goal of gender balance pursuant to decision 23/CP.18, the LEG shall 
comprise 17 experts, who shall serve in their individual expert capacity and shall be nominated by regional groups and constituencies. The composition of the LEG shall be as 
follows:
1  
(a) Five members from African States that are least developed countries ( LDCs) ; 
(b) Two members from Asia -Pacific States that are LDCs;  
(c) Two members from small island developing States that are LDCs;  
(d) Four members from the LDC Parties;  
(e) Four members from developed country Parties.  
4. When nominating members to the LEG, regional groups and constituencies shall take 
into account, inter alia, expertise in climate change adaptation and support ; engagement of 
youth; experience in climate finance; expertise in project design and implementation, 
indigenous and traditional knowledge, and education;  and gender with a view to ensuring 
gender balance.  
 
 1 Decision 15/CP.26, para. 18.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
32  5. Regional groups and constituencies represented on the LEG are encouraged to 
accommodate the needs of members that would require  extended temporary absence from 
service due to sickness, parental leave and commitments that cannot be avoided, by 
nominating a temporary replacement to serve during a member ’s term of office, before the 
return of the member to full service.  
6. The nominated t emporary replacement referred to in paragraph 5 above  shall serve 
within the bounds of the remaining term of the member for a period of no more than 12 
months.  
7. Members shall serve for a term of three  years and shall be eligible to serve a maximum 
of two c onsecutive terms of office.  
8. Members shall remain in office for the duration of their term, unless replaced by 
Parties in their respective groups or constituencies in accordance with paragraphs  5 above 
and 11  below . 
9. The term of office of a member shall start on 1 January unless, in cases where a 
member is replaced before the end of their term, the term shall start from the time of the 
replacement member’s nomination by the nominating group or constituency.  
10. In case of any vacancy in the LEG owing to the res ignation of a member  or the non-
completion of a member’s assigned term of office, including for the reasons indicated in 
paragraph 5 above , the LEG, through the secretariat, shall request the respective group or 
constituency to select another member from t he same group or constituency for nomination.  
11. If a member is unable to participate in two consecutive meetings of the LEG or is 
unable to undertake the functions and tasks set out by the Chair for circumstances beyond those referred to in paragraph 5 above , and that member has not communicated a reason for 
their absence to  the Chair or the secretariat, the Chair shall bring the matter to the attention 
of the LEG and shall seek clarification from the group or constituency that nominated the 
member on the status of their  membership.  
12. Members shall serve in their individual expert capacity and shall have no pecuniary 
or financial interest in the issues under consideration by the LEG.  
IV. Election of officers and their functions  
13. The LEG shall elect annually the follo wing officers from among its LDC members:2 
(a) A Chair;  
(b) A Vice -Chair;  
(c) An anglophone Rapporteur;  
(d) A francophone Rapporteur;  
(e) A lusophone Rapporteur.  
14. The officers shall be elected to serve for a term of two years.  
15. To the extent possible, the Chair and the Vice -Chair  should be from different United 
Nations regional groups . Gender balance should also be taken into account when nominating 
the Chair and the Vice -Chair.  
16. The Chair and the Vice- Chair shall be elected by the majority of  LDC members  
present and voting .  
17. The Chair shall perform the following functions:  
 
 2 Officers shall be elected in accordance with the terms of reference of the Least Developed Countries 
Expert Group contained in the annex to decision 29/CP.7, and as per the decision of the LEG to also 
appoint a lusophone Ra pporteur.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
 33 (a) Attending meetings of and reporting to the subsidiary bodies and to the 
Conference of the Parties and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of Parties 
to the Paris Agreem ent, as appropriate;  
(b) Chairing and facilitating the meetings of the LEG;  
(c) Delegating tasks to LEG members and ensuring that members fulfil their 
commitments within specified time frames; 
(d) Liaising with the Chair of the LDC Group under the UNFCCC and ensuring 
strategic engagement with the LDCs;  
(e) Representing the LEG when conducting various outreach activities.  
18. The Vice- Chair shall represent the Chair in their  absence and shall perform the 
functions listed in paragraph 17 above , as appropriate.  
19. The anglophone Rapporteur shall have the following functions:  
(a) Liaising with anglophone LDC Parties;  
(b) Keeping records in English of meetings of the LEG . 
20. The francophone Rapporteur shall have the following functions:  
(a) Liaising with francophone LDC Parties;  
(b) Keeping records of me etings of the LEG in French.  
21. The lusophone Rapporteur shall have the following functions:  
(a) Liaising with lusophone LDC Parties;  
(b) Keeping records of meetings of the LEG in Portuguese.  
22. If both the Chair and the Vice -Chair are absent from a particular meeting, any other 
LDC member designated by the LEG members present shall temporarily serve as  Chair of 
that meeting.  
23. If the Chair or the Vice -Chair is unable to complete the assigned term of office, the 
LEG shall elect a replacement from among the LDC members to complete that term of office.  
24. The Chair or any member designated by the LEG shall represent the LEG at external 
meetings and shall report back to the LEG on those meetings.  
25. The LEG may further define additional roles and responsibilities for the Chair, the 
Vice -Chair and the Rapporteurs.  
26. The Chair, the Vice- Chair and the Rapporteurs, in the exercise of their functions, shall 
remain under the authority of the LEG.  
V. Conflict of  interest and confidentiality  
27. Members shall promptly disclose and recuse themselves from any deliberations or 
decision -making where their personal or financial interests may be affected in order to avoid 
a conflict of interest or the appearance of one.  
28. Mem bers shall not disclose any confidential information they receive in the course of 
their duties, even after their term of office as a member has expired.  
VI. Establishment and oversight of thematic working groups  
29. Pursuant to decision 15/CP.26, paragraph 9, t he LEG may decide to establish 
subcommittees, thematic working groups or task- focused ad hoc working groups to provide 
expert advice to assist the LEG in implementing its work programme, as appropriate, and  
shall report to the LEG on work undertaken.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
34  30. In est ablishing any subcommittees, thematic working groups or task- focused ad hoc 
working groups, the LEG shall determine an appropriate number of members and ensure that 
members have relevant expertise in the respective field of work.  
VII. Frequency, modalities and location of meetings 
31. The LEG shall meet at least twice a year, while retaining  flexibility to adjust the 
number of meetings, as appropriate.  
32. The first meeting of the LEG shall be held no later than in March and the second 
meeting shall be held no later tha n in September to allow sufficient time for the meeting 
reports to be submitted and translated into the official languages of the United Nations in time for the relevant sessions of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation.  
33. A quorum of 50 per cent plus one m ember of the members of the LEG shall be  
obtained for any decisions to be made at a meeting.  
34. Virtual participation shall be made possible for LEG members who are unable to join 
an in -person meeting.  
35. Meetings of the LEG shall take place in an  LDC, unless ot herwise decided by the LEG 
and subject to the necessary arrangements being made by the secretariat in consultation with the Chair.  
36. The Chair, in consultation with the members, shall guide the secretariat on the agenda 
items that shall be open for particip ation by resource persons and observers.  
37. The LEG  shall decide on whether to webcast its meetings or part of them through the 
UNFCCC website should technical and financial resources permit.  
VIII.  Development of and reporting on the two-year rolling work 
programme  
38. The LEG shall develop a two- year rolling work programme  at its first meeting of each 
year for consideration by the Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its first session of each 
year.  
39. The LEG shall report on its work to the Subsidiary Body for Implementa tion at each 
of its sessions.  
IX. Agenda and documents for  meetings 
40. The Chair, assisted by the secretariat, shall prepare the provisional agenda for each 
meeting of the LEG.  
41. Members may propose additions or changes to the provisional agenda in writing to 
the secretariat within one week of receiving the provisional agenda. Any additions or changes 
shall be included in a revised provisional agenda prepared by the secretariat in consultation with the Chair.  
42. The secretariat shall transmit the provisional annotated agenda for each meeting to 
members of the LEG at least four weeks prior to that meeting.  
43. The LEG shall adopt the meeting agenda at the beginning of each meeting.  
44. Documents for the meeting shall be decided by the Chair and the Vice -Chair with the 
assistanc e of the secretariat.  
45. The documents referred to in paragraph 44 above  shall be made available to LEG 
members at least two weeks before the meeting.  
46. The Chair, in consultation with LEG members, shall advi se the secretariat on the 
documents that shall be made public at least two weeks before the meeting.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
 35 47. The secretariat, in consultation with the Chair, shall prepare a draft report o n the 
meeting , to be made available, to the extent possible, to members for comment at least three 
days before it is submitted for publication.  
48. The decisions and outputs of the LEG shall be made available on the UNFCCC 
website unless otherwise decided by the LEG.  
X. Decision -making  
49. Decisions of the LEG shall be taken by consensus.  
XI. Participation of observers and non -members in  meetings 
50. The meetings of the LEG may be open to attendance by observers.  
51. The LEG may invite experts as resource persons to contribute to specific technical 
work at its meetings.  
52. The LEG may invite and fund, subje ct to the availability of resources, LDC Party 
representatives to take part in LEG  meetings and contribute to the discussions.  
53. The LEG shall invite interested organizations and individuals to actively participate 
in its work, including through any subcommi ttees, thematic working groups or task -focused 
ad hoc working groups the LEG may establish or in specific activities, such as designing and 
organizing events and producing technical materials.  
XII. Means of communication  
54. English shall be  the working language of the LEG.  
55. The LEG, in conducting its activities, shall facilitate translation into official languages 
of the United Nations  relevant to the LDCs, to the extent possible.  
56. The LEG may use electronic means of communication to facilitate its work and to 
take decisions in accordance with guidelines to be agreed by the LEG.  
XIII.  Collaboration with other constituted bodies and entities 
under the Convention and the Paris Agreement  
57. The LEG shall invite the secretariats of the Green Climate Fund, the Global 
Environment F acility and the Adaptation Fund to its meetings to discuss collaboration in 
supporting the LDCs.  
58. The LEG shall collaborate with other constituted bodies and entities under the 
Convention and the Paris Agreement working on adaptation and means of implementa tion, 
as well as on work under the Nairobi work programme on impacts, vulnerability and 
adaptation to climate change, in providing support to the LDCs.  
XIV. Engagement of other organizations and regional centres and 
networks  
59. The LEG may invite relevant regiona l centres to nominate one focal point each for 
the LEG with a view to enhancing collaboration with those centres.  
60. The LEG may invite representatives of global programmes, projects and networks that 
support the process to formulate and implement national a daptation plans to its meetings, as 
appropriate, as a way of promoting the exchange of experience and lessons learned.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
36  XV. Authority of the Conference of the Parties and the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Paris Agreemen t 
61. In the event of any conflict between any provisions of these rules of procedure and 
any provisions of the Convention and the Paris Agreement, the Convention and the Paris 
Agreement shall prevail.  
XVI. Amendments to the rules of procedure  
62. These rules of procedure may be amended as requested by the Conference of the 
Parties and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreemen t.  
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 202 2 
 FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
 37   Decision 11/CP.27 
  Santiago network for averting, minimizing and addressing 
loss and damage associated with the adverse  effects of climate 
change under the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss 
and Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts  
 The Conference of the Parti es 
1. Endorses decision 12/CMA.4,  on the Santiago network for averting, minimizing and 
addressing loss and damage  under the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and 
Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts , which provides as follows:  
“1. Recalls that the Santiago network for averting, minimiz ing and addressing loss 
and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change was established to 
catalyse the technical assistance of relevant organizations, bodies, networks and experts for the implementation of relevant approaches for averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change at the local, national and regional level in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change;
1 
“2. Expresses its appreciation  to the Government of Denmark for hosting the 
technical workshop on institutional arrangements of the Santiago network from 4 to 6 
May 2022, including for making the necessary logistical and financial arrangements therefor ; 
“3.
 Decides that the Santiago network will have the following structure:  
(a) A hosted secretariat that will facilitate its work, to be known as the 
Santiago network secretariat;  
(b) An Advisory Board to provide guidance and oversight to the Santiago 
network secretariat on t he effective implementation of the functions of the network;  
(c) A network of member organizations, bodies, networks and experts 
covering a wide range of topics relevant to averting, minimizing and addressing loss 
and damage;  
“4. Recalls decision 1/CMA.3, paragrap h 67, in which it was decided that the 
Santiago network will be provided with funds2 to support technical assistance for the 
implementation of relevant approaches to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects o f climate change in developing 
countries in support of the functions set out in paragraph 9 of decision 19/CMA.3;  
“5.
 Also recalls decision 1/CMA.3, paragraph 70, which urges developed country 
Parties to provide funds for the operation of the Santiago network and for the provision of technical assistance as set out in paragraph 67 of the same decision;  
“6.
 Encourages  others  to provide support for the operation of the Santiago network 
and technical assistance;  
“7. Welcomes the pledges that have already been made to the Santiago network;  
“8. Adopts  the terms of reference of the Santiago network contained in annex I; 
“9. Decides  to establish the Advisory Board of the Santiago network as part of the 
Warsaw International Mechanism  for Loss and Damage associated with Climate 
Change Impacts , which will be under the authority and guidance of and accountable 
 
 1 Decision  2/CMA.2,  para.  43. 
 2 See also d ecision 1/CMA.3, para s. 68 and 70.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
38  to the appropriate governing body or bodies3 and have the roles and responsibilities 
outlined in annex I;  
“10. Also decides that the members of the Advisory Board will be elected at the 
next session of the governing body or bodies (November –December  2023) and 
encourages Parties to nominate experts  with a diversity of technical experience and 
knowledge relevant to, inter alia, averting, minimizing and addressing loss and 
damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change, as well as the roles and responsibilities of the Advisory Board refe rred to in annex I, taking into account the 
need for gender balance, in accordance with decisions 36/CP.7, 23/CP.18, and 3/CP.25, and the composition of the Advisory Board outlined in annex I;  
“11.
 Further decides  that the members elected to the Advisory Board shall serve a 
term of two years and shall be eligible to serve a maximum of two consecutive terms of office;  
“12.
 Decides  that half of the members elected in 2023 shall serve a term of three 
years and half of the members shall serve a term of two years, after w hich time the 
governing body or bodies shall elect half of the members every year for a term of two years;  
“13.
 Also decides  that the members of the Advisory Board shall remain in office 
until their successors are elected ; 
“14. Requests  the Advisory Board to develop draft rules of procedure4 with a view 
to recommending them to the governing body or bodies through the subsidiary bodies for consideration and adoption at the sixty- first sessions of the subsidiary bodies 
(November 2024) ; 
“15.
 Also requests the secretariat to  continue providing support for developing 
countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change that may seek or wish to benefit from the technical assistance available from organizations, bodies, networks and experts under t he Santiago network, until the Santiago network 
secretariat is operational;  
“16.
 Decides that the Santiago network secretariat will be accountable to and 
operate under the guidance of the governing body or bodies through the Advisory Board and hosted by an orga nization or a consortium of organizations able to provide 
the necessary administrative and infrastructural support for its effective functioning;  
“17.
 Also decides that the Santiago network secretariat  shall, once it is operational, 
elaborate modalities and procedures for the Santiago network under the guidance of and by approval of the Advisory Board on the basis of the terms of reference contained in annex I, and taking into account decision 19/CMA.3,  paragraph 9, endorsed in 
decision 17/CP.26, and decision 1/CMA.3, paragraph 67, including:  
(a) Developing  guidelines for the designation of organizations, bodies, 
networks and experts  as members of the Santiago network;  
(b) Developing guidelines and  procedures for responding to requests for 
technical assistance, including considering the development of procedures for those that require an urgent response;  
(c) Developing guidelines for managing funding provided for technical 
assistance, including to ensure that technic al assistance funded directly by the 
Santiago network is made available to communities particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change, including through levels of minimum percentage of technical assistance funded directly by the Santiago network directed to 
communities particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change;  
 
 3 Nothing in this document prejudices Parties’ views or prejudges outcomes on matters related to the 
governance of the Warsaw International Mechanism.  
 4 The Board will specify in its procedures how to adopt decisions in the event that all efforts at reaching 
consensus have been exhausted.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
 39 “18. Further decides  that the selection process for the host of the Santiago network 
secretariat shall be launched upon the conclusion of the twenty -seventh sessio n of the 
Conference of the Parties and the fourth session of the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement in order to select the host by 2023 and be conducted in an open, transparent, fair and neutral manner in  
accordance with the process outlined in paragraphs 19– 23 below, informed by United 
Nations practices and standards;  
“19.
 Requests the secretariat, under the guidance of the Chairs of the subsidiary 
bodies,  to: 
(a) Prepare and issue a call for proposals to host  the Santiago network 
secretariat by 31 December 2022, making it widely and publicly available, including preparing a proposal template, and invite interested organizations, including consortiums of organizations, to submit their proposals in response to the c all by 31 
March 2023;  
(b) Provide responses to enquiries from interested organizations, as 
appropriate;  
(c) Compile the executive summaries contained in the submitted proposals 
and make them available on the UNFCCC website by 7 April 2023;  
(d) Convene an evaluation pa nel by 7 April 2023 and support the panel in 
the preparation of an evaluation report, as referred to in paragraph 22 below;  
(e) Ensure that it does not have a potential conflict of interest in the 
selection process, including by applying appropriate safeguards and procedures;  
“20.
 Invites the Executive Committee to designate four of its members, the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network Advisory Board and the Paris Committee on Capacity -building to designate two members each to serve as members on the 
evaluation panel referred to in paragraph 19(d) above, to consider the proposals, ensuring that there is a balanced representation of developed and developing country Parties;  
“21.
 Also invites  the panel to consult, as appropriate, with other constituted bodies  
with relevant expertise, including in particular the Adaptation Committee and the Facilitative Working Group of the Local Communities and Indigenous Peoples Platform;  
“22.
 Requests the evaluation panel to prepare an evaluation report with a shortlist 
of up to three proposals that meet the criteria referred to in annex II, including 
information on how the evaluation criteria have been applied to these proposals, and make the evaluation report available for consideration by the subsidiary bodies at their fifty-eighth sessions (June 2023);  
“23.
 Also requests the subsidiary bodies to recommend at their fifty- eighth sessions 
a draft decision with one proposal to host  the Santiago network secretariat that best 
meets the criteria set out in annex II for consideration and a doption by the governing 
body or bodies at their session(s) to be held in November –December  2023;  
“24. Further  requests the secretariat, under the guidance of the Chairs of the 
subsidiary bodies, to develop a draft host agreement (memorandum of understanding) with the proposer recommended by the subsidiary bodies at their fifty- eighth sessions 
with a view to recommending it for consideration and approval by the governing body or bodies at their session(s) to be held in November –December  2023;  
“25.
 Invites  Parties to inform the Santiago network secretariat of their liaison to the 
Santiago network secretariat, as appropriate for their national circumstances, to support alignment of technical assistance through the Santiago network with national priorities; 
“26.
 Affirms  that technical assistance provided through the Santiago network in a 
demand -driven manner will be developed through an inclusive and country- driven FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
40  process, taking into account the needs of vulnerable people, indigenous peoples and 
local communities;  
“27. Also affirms that, when technical  assistance is provided by the Santiago 
network, it should take into consideration the cross -cutting issues referred to in the 
eleventh preambular paragraph of the Paris Agreement;  
“28. Notes that considerations  related to the governance  of the Warsaw 
International Mechanism will continue at its fifth session  (November –December  
2023) ;5 
“29. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be 
undertaken by the secretariat referred to in this decision;  
“30. Requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be 
undertaken subject to the availability of financial res ources. ”  
2. Notes that considerations related to the governance of the Warsaw International 
Mechanism will continue at its twenty -eight h session  (November –December 2023).6 
 
 
 5 It is noted that discussions on the governance of the Warsaw International Mechanism did not 
produce an outcome; this is  without prejudice to further consideration of this matter.   
 6 As footnote 6 above.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
 41 Annex I * 
Terms of reference of the Santiago network for averting, 
minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with 
the adverse effects of climate change  
I. Objective  
1. The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement (C MA), at its second session, established,  as part of the Warsaw International 
Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts, the Santiago 
network for averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage  associated with the adverse 
effects of climate change to catalyse the technical assistance of relevant organizations, 
bodies, networks and experts for the implementation of relevant approaches at the local, national and regional level in developing countries that are particularly vulnera ble to the 
adverse effects of climate change.
1 
II. Functions  
2. CMA 3 decided that the Santiago  network is to have the following functions:2 
(a) Contributing to the effective implementation of the functions3 of the Warsaw 
International Mechanism, in line with the provisions in paragraph 7 of decision 2/CP.19 and Article 8 of the Paris Agreement, by catalysing the technical assistance of organizations, bodies, networks and experts;  
(b) Catalysing demand- driven tec hnical assistance, including of relevant 
organizations, bodies, networks and experts, for the implementation of relevant approaches to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adver se effects of climate change by assisting in:  
(i) Identifying, prioritizing and communicating technical assistance needs and 
priorities;  
(ii) Identifying types of relevant technical assistance;  
(iii) Actively connecting those seeking technical assistance with best suite d 
organizations, bodies, networks and experts;  
(iv) Accessing technical assistance available, including from such organizations, 
bodies, networks and experts ; 
(c) Facilitating the consideration of a wide range of topics relevant to averting, 
minimizing and addressi ng loss and damage approaches, including but not limited to current 
and future impacts, priorities and actions related to averting, minimizing and addressing loss 
and damage pursuant to decisions 3/CP.18 and 2/CP.19, the areas referred to in Article 8, paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreement and the strategic workstreams of the second five-year 
rolling workplan of the Executive Committee  of the Warsaw International Mechanism ;
4 
(d) Facilitating and catalysing collaboration, coordination, coherence and 
synergies to accelerate action by organizations, bodies, networks and experts, across communities of practices, and for them to deliver effective and efficient technical assistance to developing countries;  
 
 * Annex I to decision 12/CMA.4, endorsed by the Conference of the Parties in this decision.  
 1  Decision 2/CMA. 2, para.  43. 
 2 Decision 19/CMA.3, para. 9. 
 3 Decision 2/CP.19, para. 5.  
 4 See FCCC/SB/2022/2/Add.2 , annex I.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
42  (e) Facilitating the development, provision and dissem ination of, and access to, 
knowledge and information on averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage, 
including comprehensive risk management approaches, at the regional, national and local level; 
(f) Facilitating, through catalysing technical assistanc e of organizations, bodies, 
networks and experts, access to action and support (finance, technology and capacity-building), under and outside the Convention and the Paris Agreement, relevant to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate 
change, including urgent and timely responses to the impacts of climate change.  
III. Structure  
3. The Santiago network w ill have the following structure:  
(a) A hosted secretariat  that will facilitate  its work,  to be known  as the Santiago 
network secretariat ; 
(b) An Advisory Board to provide guidance and oversight to the Santiago network 
secretariat on the effective implementation of the functions  of the network;  
(c) A network of member organizations, bodies, networks and experts covering a 
wide range of topics relevan t to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage.  
IV. Roles and responsibilities  
A. Santiago network  secretariat  
4. The Santiago network secretariat shall be accountable to and operate under the 
guidance of the Advisory Board.  
5. The Santiago  network secretariat shall facilitate the implementation of the functions 
of the Santiago network.5 
6. The Santiago network secretariat shall manage day -to-day operations of the Santiago 
network, including:  
(a) Building  and managing the network of member organizations,  bodies,  
networks  and experts,  coverin g a wide range of topics relevant to averting, minimizing 
and addressing loss and damage  approaches;6 
(b) Ensuring the coordination and collaboration of the work of the Santiago 
network with relevant  UNFCCC constituted bodies, in particular the Executive Committee, 
as well as exploring synergies with other initiatives and networks;  
(c) Receiving, assessing and managing the process of responding to requests from 
developing countries that are particularly v ulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change 
for technical assistance to avert, minimize and address loss and damage, in coordination with network members;  
(d) Developing and executing the work programme approved by the Advisory 
Board , building on synergies with the five -year rolling workplan of the Executive 
Committee;  
(e) Promoting and disseminating information on the Santiago network in a manner 
that is comprehensible and accessible to communities particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change;  
 
 5 As per decision 19/CMA.3, para . 9, endorsed in decision 17/CP.26.  
 6 FCCC/ SB/2022/2/Add.2, annex I.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
 43 (f) Managing and directing the disbursement of funds provided for the Santiago 
network consistently  with the fiduciary standards, legal and ethical integrity policies, and  
financial rules and regulations of the host of the secretariat; 
(g) Administering the  funds provided for technical assistance under the Santiago 
network in a cost -effective and transparent manner;  
(h) Maintaining a monitoring and evaluation system to assess the timeliness, 
appropriateness and outcomes of assistance provided;  
(i) Supporting and fac ilitating the work of the Advisory Board.  
B. Advisory Board  
7. The Advisory Board will:  
(a) Approve policies, procedures and guidelines developed by the Santiago 
network secretariat;  
(b) Provide guidance on the effective implementation of the functions of the 
Santiago network;  
(c) Provide guidance on the preparation of the annual report of the Santiago 
network;  
(d) Approve modalities for the designation of organizations, bodies, networks and 
experts as members of the Santiago network;  
(e) Approve the work programme of the Santiago network, ensuring, as much as 
possible, coherence and synergies with the five -year rolling workplan of the Executive 
Committee  and the plans of action of the expert groups, task force and technical expert group 
of the Warsaw International Mechanism;  
(f) Approve  the annual budget of the Santiago network;  
(g) Endorse the appointment of the director of the Santiago network secretariat;  
(h) Endorse the financial statement of the Santiago network;  
(i) Review the timeliness and quality of the responses of the Santiago network to 
requests for technical assistance;  
(j) Provide guidance on and approve the criteria used to assure the relevance and 
quality of expertise and services delivered by organizations, bodies, networks and experts.  
V. Composition  of the Advisory  Board  
8. The Advisory Board, with the aim of achieving fair and balanced representation, shall 
be composed of the following:  
(a) Two members from each of the five recognized United Nations regional 
groups;  
(b) One member each from the least developed countries and small island  
developing States;  
(c) Two members of the Executive Committee, nominated by the Executive 
Committee from among its members.  
9. The Advisory Board will also have three other representatives, one from the women 
and gender constituency, one from indigenous peoples  organizations, and one from the 
children and youth non -governmental organizations, who may actively participate in the 
deliberations of the Advisory Board.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
44  VI. Matters related  to meetings of the Advisory Board  
10. The Advisory Board meetings will be open to obse rvers, unless otherwise decided by 
the Advisory Board, and the Advisory Board will invite observers from relevant constituted 
bodies, civil society organizations and other organizations, bodies, networks and experts to attend its meetings in order to provi de technical expertise and inputs, as appropriate, to the 
Advisory Board for its deliberations.  
11. Decisions  of the Advisory Board will be taken by consensus by the members listed in 
paragraph 8 above . 
12. The Advisory Board shall meet at least twice a year, where possible in connection 
with meetings of the Executive Committee, while retaining its flexibility to adjust the number of meetings to suit its needs.  
VII. Organizational structure  of the secretariat  
13. The Santiago network secretariat will have a lean, cost -efficient organizational 
structure, led by a director who will manage a small core team of professional and administrative staff, in order to meet its responsibilities and perform its functions efficiently 
and effectively.  
14. The Santiago network secretariat i s to be hosted by an organization or a consortium 
of several organizations capable of supporting the functions of the Santiago network secretariat.  
15. Subject to the endorsement of the Advisory Board, the director of the Santiago 
network 
secretariat  will be a ppointed by the host. The director will be accountable to the 
host for administrative issues relating to the administrative effectiveness and efficiency of the Santiago network secretariat and to the Advisory Board for the effective implementation of the f unctions of the Santiago network.  
16. The director will have a fixed term of office no longer than the term of the host 
agreement, which  may be renewed subject to endorsement by the Advisory Board, and should 
have broad respons ibility to provide strategic leadership to the Santiago network and to 
manage its secretariat.  
17. The director  of the Santiago network secretariat shall serve as secretary to the 
Advisory Board.  
VIII.  Reporting  
18. In line with guidance provided by the Advisory Board, the Santiago networ k 
secretariat will prepare an annual report on activities of the Santiago network secretariat and network and on the performance of their respective functions, including information on:  
(a) Requests received and activities carried out by the Santiago network a nd their 
outcomes;  
(b) Responses to requests;  
(c) Ongoing work as well as lessons learned and best practices derived from 
that work;  
(d) Support delivered in regions , finance disbursed and administrative costs;  
(e) Inclusion of new members in the Santiago network and thei r engagement 
therein; 
(f) Assistance to developing country Parties in identifying, prioritizing and 
communicating their needs for technical assistance;  
(g) Efforts to reach communities that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse 
effects of climate change;  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
 45 (h) Gend er considerations, including through the use of gender -disaggregated 
data, consistently with  decision 3/CP.25.  
19. The Santiago  network secretariat will prepare an annual report and submit it to the 
Advisory Board for its consideration and approval. The approved report will be forwarded to 
the secretariat  to be included in a joint annual report of the Santiago network and the 
Executive  Committee submitted to the governing body or bodies through their subsidiary 
bodies.  
IX. Review  
20. The Santiago network secretar iat will commission one independent review of the 
performance of the Santiago network, including, inter alia,  sustainability and sources of 
funding, adequacy of funding levels relative to technical assistance requests, timeliness, effectiveness, engagement , gender -responsiveness and delivery of technical assistance to 
communities particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change, in a timely manner so that the findings of this review can feed into the subsequent review  of the Warsaw 
International Mechanism,
7 for determin ing the need for further independent reviews  of the 
performance of the Santiago network . 
X. Term of host agreement  
21. The initial  term of the agreement to host the secretariat of the Santiago network will 
be five years, with five -year renewal periods, if so decided by the appropriate governing body 
or bodies.  
22. The renewal of the agreement to host the Santiago network secretariat will b e subject 
to the host organization satisfactorily fulfilling its functions.  
 
 
 7 As per decision 2/CMA.2, para. 46.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
46  Annex II * 
Criteria to be used to evaluate proposals and select the host 
of the secretariat of the Santiago network for averting, 
minimizing and addressing loss and damage  associated with 
the adverse effects of climate change  
1. The proposals submitted  pursuant  to paragraph 19(a) of this decision will be 
evaluated against the criteria  below.  
I. Technical capability  
2. The technical capability criteria are as follows:  
(a) Be a single organization or a consortium of partner organizations capable of 
providing a lean, efficient and agile service to the  secretariat of the Santiago network for 
averting, minimizing and addressing loss  and damage associated with the adverse effects of 
climate change;  
(b) Have strong networks across communities of practice, including development 
and humanitarian actors, relevant to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage, 
climate change adaptatio n, and disaster risk reduction, response and recovery;  
(c) Have a broad regional presence and have  demonstrated experience and 
expertise in understanding the dynamics of various countries;  
(d) Have a track record of facilitating technical assistance and building capacity in 
developing countries and communities that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change;  
(e) Have demonstrated experience in managing global networks or initiatives and 
capability to engage with multiple stakeholders for effec tive operations;  
(f) Have demonstrated the capacity to engage in partnerships with a wide range of 
organizations, bodies, networks and experts across different communities working in domains relevant to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage, incl uding climate 
change adaptation, disaster risk management, humanitarian aid and development cooperation, as well as with finance providers and other partners.  
II. Management and governance  
3. The management and governance criteria are as follows:  
(a) Have an effectiv e governance and management structure to support high-
quality administration, ensuring compliance with ethical standards;  
(b) Have the necessary staff recruitment and management capability;  
(c) Have demonstrated an ability to simultaneously administer and manage 
multiple and complex projects in developing countries;  
(d) Be able to manage and maintain information systems to enable sharing of best 
practices and lessons learned;  
(e) Be able to guarantee the appropriate monitoring and tracking of the actions 
undertaken.  
 
 * Annex II to decision 12/CMA.4,  endorsed by the Conference of the Parties in this decision.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
 47 III. Financ ial management  
4. The financial management criteria are as follows:  
(a) Have financial management, auditing and reporting functions; a robust 
accountability system; sound financial systems of international standard; and a fiduciary 
record that ensures the correct  and impartial administering and disbursement of funds;  
(b) Have a track record in financial stability and sustainability.  
IV. Vision and management plan  
5. The vision and management plan criteria are as follows:  
(a) Have an overall vision, structure and approach in terms of how the host will 
support the effective functioning of the Santiago network;  
(b) Have a proposal for providing the Santiago network secretariat with in -kind 
and financial support;  
(c) Identify the ways in which partners and networks could be engaged to facilitate 
and catalyse technical assistance.  
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 202 2 
 FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
48    Decision 12/CP.27 
  Report of the Executive Committee of the Warsaw 
International Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated 
with Climate Change Impacts  
 The Conference of the Parti es 
1. Endorses decision 13/CMA.4,  on the Report of the Executive Committee of the 
Warsaw International Mechanism  for Loss and Damage associated with Climate Change 
Impacts and the report1 of the Executive Committee, which provides as follows:  
“1. Welcomes : 
(a) The report for 2022 of the Executive Commit tee of the Warsaw 
International Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated with Climate Change 
Impacts, appreciating the work of the Executive Committee and endorsing the 
recommendations in the report;2  
(b) The adoption by the Executive Committee of its second  five-year 
rolling workplan, the second plan of action of the technical expert group on comprehensive risk management and the third plan of action of the task force on displacement;
3 
“2. Expresses  its appreciation  to the organizations and experts that contributed to 
the progress of the work reported in the document referred to in paragraph 1(a)  above , 
including in relation to:  
(a) The development of the second five -year rolling workplan of the 
Executive Committee; 
(b) The achievements of the expert groups, technical expert group and task 
force of the Executive Committee;  
(c) Contribution to the regular meetings of the Executive Committee;  
(d) The submission of information pursuant to paragraph 44 of decision 
2/CMA.2, and noted in decision 2/CP.25, relevant to the Sa ntiago network for 
averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse 
effects of climate change;  
“3. Encourages  the organizations and experts to continue to contribute as referred 
to in paragraph 2 a bove;  
“4. Requests  the Ex ecutive Com mittee  to continue:  
(a) Exploring further opportunities and modalities for engaging national 
stakeholders, including loss and damage contact points and national focal points;  
(b) Collaborating and enhancing synergies with programmes , bodies  and 
platforms under and outside the Convention and the Paris Agreement;  
“5. Also requests  the Executive Committee, with regard to information relating to  
averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage, to continue collaborating with 
the Consultative Group of Experts in accordance with the latter’s  mandate to provide 
technical advice and support to developing country Parties for enhancing their institutional and technical capacity to prepare and submit national reports; 
“6.
 Further requests  the secretariat , in responding to paragraph 11 of decision 
19/CMA.3, and endorsed in decision 17/CP.26,  to make public the requests it receives 
 
 1 FCCC/SB/2022/2  and Add.1– 2. 
 2 As footnote 1 above.  
 3 Contained in document FCCC/SB/2022/2/Add.2, annexes I –III. FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.1  
 49 for technical assistance and to more actively communicate information on technical 
assistance available and the ways in which countries may access the technical assistance available, including as articulated by organizations, bodies, networks and experts responding to the invitation in paragraph 44 of decision 2/CMA.2, and noted in decision 2/CP.25, relevant to the Santiago network fo r averting, minimizing and 
addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change, and to report on progress to the Executive Committee ; 
“7.
 Notes that considerations  related to the governance of the Warsaw 
International Mechanism wil l continue at its fifth session (November –December  
2023);4 
“8. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be 
undertaken by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 1– 6 above;  
“9. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision  be 
undertaken subject to the availability of financi al resources.” 
2. Notes that considerations related to the governance of the Warsaw International 
Mechanism will continue at its twenty -eighth session (November –December 2023).5 
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 202 2 
     
 
 4 It is noted that discussions on the governance of the Warsaw International Mechanism did not 
produce an outcome; this is without prejudice to further consideration of this matter.   
 5 As footnote 5 above .  
 
GE.23 -04732(E)  
Conference of the Parties  
  Report of the Conference of the Parties on its twenty -seventh 
session, held in Sharm el -Sheikh from 6  to 20 November 2022  
  Addendum  
 Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties at its 
twenty -seventh session  
Contents  
  Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties  
 Decision  Page 
  13/CP.27  Long -term climate finance  ................................ ................................ ..............................   2 
  14/CP.27  Matters relating to the Standing Committee on Finance  ................................ .................   4 
  15/CP.27  Terms of reference for the second review of the functions of the  
    Standing Committee on Finance  ................................ ................................ .....................   21 
  16/CP.27  Report of the Green Climate Fund to the Conference of the Parties and  
    guidance to the Green Climate Fund  ................................ ................................ ...............   24 
  17/CP.27  Report of the Global Environment Facility to the Conferenc e of the Parties and  
    guidance to the Global Environment Facility  ................................ ................................ ..  27 
  18/CP.27  Enhancing climate technology development and transfer through the Technology  
Mechanism  ................................ ................................ ................................ ......................   30 
  19/CP.27  Annual technical progress report of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building  
    for 2022  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...........................   33 
  20/CP.27  Report of the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures  ...........   35 
  21/CP.27  Second periodic review of the long -term global goal under the Convention and  
    of overall progress towards achieving it ................................ ................................ ..........   40 
  22/CP.27  Implementation of the Global Climate Observing System  ................................ ..............   43 
  23/CP.27  Action plan under the Glasgow work programme on Action for Climate Empowerment  44 
   United Nations  FCCC /CP/2022/10/Add.2  
 
  
Distr.: General  
17 March 2023  
 
Original: English  
FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
2    Decision 13/CP.27  
  Long-term climate finance  
The Conference of the Parties ,  
Recalling  Articles 4 and 11 of the Convention , 
Also recalling  decisions 1/CP.16, paragraphs 2, 4 and 97 –101, 1/CP.17, 2/CP.17, 
paragraphs 126 –132, 4/CP.18, 3/CP.19, 5/CP.20, 1/CP.21, 5/CP.21, 7/CP.22, 6/CP.23, 
3/CP.24, 11/CP.25, paragraph 10, 1/CP.26 and 4/CP.26,  
1. Recalls the commitment of developed country Parties, in the context of meaningful 
mitigation actions and transparency on implementation, to a goal of mobilizing jointly 
USD  100 billion per year by 2020 to address the needs of developing country Parties in 
accordance with decision 1/CP.16;  
2. Also recalls  that, in accordance with decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 53, developed 
countries reaffirmed the continuation of their existing collective mobilization goal through 
2025 in the context of meaningful mitigation action s and transparency on implementation;  
3. Notes  with de ep regret that the goal of developed country Parties to mobilize jointly 
USD 100 billion per year by 2020 in the context of meaningful mitigation actions and 
transparency on implementation has not been met, including due to challenges in mobilizing 
finance  from private sources, and welcomes  the ongoing efforts of developed country Parties 
towards achieving the goal of mobilizing jointly USD 100 billion per year;  
4. Urges  developed country Parties to fully deliver on the USD 100 billion per year goal 
urgently a nd through 2025, noting the significant role of public funds ; 
5. Welcomes  the recent pledges made to the Adaptation Fund (totalling  USD  211.6 
million), the Least Developed Countries Fund (totalling USD 70.6 million), the Special 
Climate Change Fund (totalling  USD 35.0 million) and the eighth replenishment of the 
Global Environment Facility (totalling USD 5. 3 billion and with a climate -related finance 
target of no less than 80 per cent of all funding commitments in the eighth replenishment 
period) and urges developed country Parties to fulfil their pledges on time;  
6. Welcomes contributions made by the Governments of Belgium, Germany, Norway, 
the Republic of Korea, the Russian Federation, Spain  and Sweden and by the European Union 
to the work on long -term finance a nd work related to the activities referred to  in paragraph 
11 below;  
7. Reiterates the need for grant -based resources in developing countries, in particular for 
adaptation, and in particular for the least developed countries and small island developing 
States ; 
8. Also reiterates that a significant amount of adaptation finance should flow through 
the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism, the Adaptation Fund, the Least Developed 
Countries Fund and the Special Climate Change Fund;  
9. Emphasizes  the need for further efforts to e nhance access to climate finance, including 
through harmonized, simplified and direct access procedures;  
10. Requests  Parties to continue enhancing their enabling environments and policy 
frameworks to facilitate the mobilization and effective deployment of cl imate finance;1 
11. Reiterates  that the secretariat, in collaboration with the operating entities of the 
Financial Mechanism, United Nations agencies and bilateral, regional and other multilateral 
channels, will continue to explore ways and means to assist developing country Parties in  
assessing their needs and priorities in a country -driven manner, including their technological 
and capacity -building needs, and in translating climate finance needs into action;2 
 
 1 See decision 3/CP.19 . 
 2 Decision 6/CP.23, para. 10.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
 3 12. Notes the fifth Biennial Assessment and Overview of Climate Finance Flows o f the 
Standing Committee on Finance;3 
13. Also notes the technical report of the Standing Committee on Finance on progress 
towards achieving the goal of mobilizing jointly USD 100 billion per year to address the 
needs of developing countries in the context of  meaningful mitigation actions and 
transparency on implementation, and the quantitative and qualitative information presented 
therein;4 
14. Further notes  the different estimates of progress towards achieving the goal of 
mobilizing jointly USD 100 billion per year from a wide variety of sources, public and 
private, bilateral and multilateral, including alternative sources, and recognizes  the lack of a 
common definition and accounting methodology in this regard;  
15. Requests  the Standing Committee on Finance to prep are biennial reports, including a 
summary of key findings, on progress towards achieving the goal of mobilizing jointly 
USD  100 billion per year to address the needs of developing countries in the context of 
meaningful mitigation actions and transparency o n implementation, taking into account other 
relevant reports, for consideration by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -ninth 
(November 2024), thirty -first (2026), and thirty -third (2028) sessions and notes  the final 
report will be considered in the  context of matters relating to the Standing Committee on 
Finance;  
16. Also n otes the report of the Standing Committee on Finance on its work on definitions 
of climate finance,5 and the complexity arising from the diversity of definitions of climate 
finance i n use by Parties and non -Party stakeholders in the context of aggregate accounting 
and reporting of climate finance;  
17. Further  notes the report of the Standing Committee on Finance on the mapping of 
available information relevant to Article 2, paragraph 1(c) , of the Paris Agreement, including 
its reference to Article 9 thereof;6 
18. Welcomes the note by the Presidency of the twenty -sixth session of the Conference of 
the Parties on the fourth biennial high -level ministerial dialogue on climate finance,7 in 
particular the key messages contained therein;  
19. Also welcomes  the deliberations at the fifth biennial high-level ministerial dialogue 
on climate finance on the progress and fulfilment of the goal of mobilizing jointly USD 100 
billion per year by 2020 and looks f orward  to the summary to be prepared by the Presidency 
of the Conference of the Parties for its twenty -eighth session (November –December 2023).  
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
 
 
 3 See document FCCC/CP/2022/8/Add.1 –FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/7/Add.1 . 
 4 FCCC/CP/2022/INF.2.  
 5 FCCC/CP/2022/8/Add.2 –FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/7/Add.2.  
 6 FCCC/CP/2022/8/Add.4 –FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/7/Add.4.  
 7 FCCC/CP/2022/2 . FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
4    Decision 14/CP.27  
  Matters relating to the Standing Committee on Finance  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  Articles 4 and 11 of the Convention , 
Also recal ling decisions 12/CP.2, 12/CP.3, 1/CP.16, paragraph 112, 2/CP.17, 
paragraphs 120 –121, 5/CP.18, 5/CP.19, 7/CP.19, 6/CP.20, 6/CP.21, 8/CP.22, 7/CP.23, 
8/CP.23, 4/CP.24, 11/CP.25, 5/CP.26, 5/CMA.2 and 10/CMA.3 , 
Taking note  of decision 14/CMA.4 , 
1. Welcomes  the 2022 report of the Standing Committee on Finance;1 
2. Also welcomes the fifth Biennial Assessment and Overview of Climate Finance Flows  
of the Standing Committee on Finance  and the summary , and takes note  of the 
recommendations contained in the annex;2 
3. Notes  that climate finance flows in 2019 –2020 were 12 per cent higher than in 
2017 –2018, reaching an annual average of USD 803 billion, driven by investments in energy 
efficiency of buildings, sustainable transport and adaptation; the 2019 –2020 annual average 
of public financial support reported by Parties included in Annex II to the Convention in their 
biennial reports (USD 40.1 billion) represents an increase of 6 per cent from the annual 
average reported for 2017 –2018; the annual average of cli mate finance from  multilateral 
development banks to developing countries and emerging economies3 (USD 45.9 billion) 
represents a  17 per cent increase since  2017 –2018; and UNFCCC funds and multilateral 
climate funds committed USD 2.9 billion and USD 3.5 bi llion for climate finance projects in 
2019 and 2020 respectively;  
4. Notes with concern that global climate finance flows are small relative to the overall 
needs of developing countries;  
5. Also notes with concern  that, despite the clear increasing trend in global climate 
finance flows, they remain at a relatively low level in the broader context of other finance 
flows, investment opportunities and costs;  
6. Encourages  Parties to the Convention to consider implement ing the recommendations 
referred to in paragraph 2 above, as appropriate;  
7. Acknowledges  the improvement in quality, transparency and granularity of 
information in the fifth Biennial Assessment while recognizing that data limitations persist, 
particularly in r elation to private climate finance, including private finance  mobilized by 
developed country Parties through bilateral and multilateral channels, and finance in sectors 
other than energy and transport, and  requests  further work in this regard in the sixth Biennial 
Assessment, including in relation to data by region, private finance mobilized from public 
interventions and financing arrangements relevant to averting, minimizing and addressing 
loss and damage;  
8. Stresse s the importance of reporting on climate finance provided, mobilized, needed 
and received at both the activity and country level, and of enhancing methodologies for 
measuring and reporting on the results and impacts of climate finance;  
9. Notes  that the work of the Standing Committee on Finance on definitions of climate 
finance4 shows the variety of definitions in use;  
 
 1 FCCC/CP/2022/8 –FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/7.  
 2 Also contained in document  FCCC/CP/2022/8/Add. 1–FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/7/Add. 1. 
 3 See footnote 2 in Standing Committee on Finance . 2022. Fifth Biennial Assessment and Overview of 
Climate Finance Flows . Bonn: UNFCCC. Available at  https://unfccc.int/topics/climate -
finance/resources/biennial -assessment -and-overview -of-climate -finance -flows . 
 4 See document FCCC/ CP/2022/8/Add.2 –FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/7/Add.2.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
 5 10. Also notes  the complexities associated with the diversity of definitions of climate 
finance in use by Parties and non -Party stakeholders in re lation to ensuring clear , aggregated 
accounting and reporting of climate finance;  
11. Requests  the Standing Committee on Finance to prepare a report for consideration by 
the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -eighth session (November –December 2023), 
build ing on the Committee’s work on definitions of climate finance, on clustering types of 
climate finance definitions in use that could be considered within the UNFCCC process, 
including with a view to updating the Committee’s operational definition of climate  finance, 
as appropriate, and supporting Parties in their national reporting efforts and invites  Parties 
and external stakeholders to make further submissions thereon via the submission portal5 by 
30 April  2023;  
12. Notes  the report prepared by the Standing Committee on Finance on progress towards 
achieving the  goal of mobilizing jointly USD 100 billion per year to address the needs of 
developing countries in the context of meaningful mitigation actions and transparency on 
implementation;6 
13. Notes with concern  that the draft guidance for the operating entities of the Financial 
Mechanism prepared by the Standing Committee on Finance7 was not utilized by the 
Conference of the Parties and in this regard requests  the Committee to improve its working 
modalities for  preparing the draft guidance for the operating entities of the Financial 
Mechanism;  
14. Expresses  its sincere  gratitude to the Government of Australia for its support in 
ensuring the success of the second part of the Standing Committee on Finance Forum on 
finance for nature -based solutions and notes with appreciation  the high-level summary 
there of,8 without prejudice to other multilateral processes, and welcomes the Forum’s specific 
focus on indigenous peoples and knowledge;  
15. Also welcomes  financing just transitions as the topic for the Standing Committee on 
Finance Forum in 2023;  
16. Expresses its appreciation  to the Governments of Australia and Germany and to the 
European Commission for their financial contributions to support the work of the  Standing 
Committee on Finance;  
17. Endorses  the workplan of the Standing Committee on Finance for 20239 and 
underlines the importance of the Committee focusing its work in 2023 on its current mandates ; 
18. Welcomes  the efforts of the Standing Committee on Financ e to continue to strengthen 
its engagement with stakeholders in the context of its workplan, including UNFCCC 
constituted bodies, private entities and other entities outside the UNFCCC, and encourages  
the Committee to continue such efforts in 2023;  
19. Also en courages the Standing Committee on Finance to continue to enhance its efforts 
to ensure gender  responsiveness in implementing its workplan and requests Parties to 
consider gender balance and geographical representation when nominating members to the 
Commit tee; 
20. Encourages the Standing Committee on Finance to take further steps to accurately, 
adequately and equitably reflect the views of Parties in its future reports and ensure that those 
views are presented in a balanced manner that reflects their diversity;  
21. Requests the Standing Committee on Finance to report to the Conference of the Parties 
at its twenty -eighth session on its progress in implementing its workplan for 2023;  
22. Also requests  the Standing Committee on Finance to consider the guidance provided 
to it in other relevant decisions of the Conference of the Parties.  
 
 5 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx . 
 6 FCCC/CP/2022/INF.2 . 
 7 FCCC/CP/2022/8/Add.5 –FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/ 7/Add.5.  
 8 FCCC/CP/2022/8/Add.6 –FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/7/Add.6.  
 9 FCCC/CP/2022/8 –FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/7, annex II.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
6  Annex * 
Summary and recommendations of the fifth Biennial 
Assessment and Overview of Climate Finance Flows  
[English only]  
I. Context and mandates  
1. The fifth BA  conducted by the SCF1 provides an updated overview of climate finance 
flows up until 2020, highlighting the trends therein, and an assessment of the  implications of 
these flows for international efforts to address climate change. The  fifth BA includes:  
(a) Information on recent developments in methodologies related to the tracking 
of climate finance at the international and domestic level, the operational definitions of 
climate finance in use and the indicators for measuring the impacts of climate finance, as 
well as emerging methodologies that support tracking the consistency of finance flows (see 
also the box below);  
(b) An overview of climate fin ance flows from developed to developing countries, 
and available information on domestic climate finance, cooperation among developing 
countries2 and other climate -related finance flows that constitute global climate finance;  
(c) An assessment of the key fea tures of climate finance flows, including their 
composition and purpose; an exploration of the effectiveness, accessibility and magnitude (in 
the context of broader flows) of climate finance flows; and insights into country ownership 
and alignment of clima te finance flows with the needs and priorities of beneficiaries.  
2. Since the first BA was conducted in 2014, the preparation of BAs has been guided by 
mandates from the COP and the CMA to the SCF.3 The fifth BA comprises this summary, 
prepared by the SCF, and a technical report prepared by experts under the guidance of the 
SCF drawing on information and data from a range of sources. The report was subject to 
extensive stakeholder input and expert review, but remains a product of the external experts.  
Challe nges and limitations in collecting and aggregating data on climate finance  
The challenges and limitations outlined below need to be taken into consideration when 
deriving conclusions and policy implications from the fifth BA:  
(a) The fifth BA covers 2019 –2020, a period during which the coronavirus disease 2019 
pandemic may have affected the provision, mobilization and reporting of climate 
finance flows;  
(b) In compiling the estimates of climate finance flows, efforts were made to ensure 
they are based on activities that are in line with the operational definition of climate 
finance adopted in the first BA in 2014 and to avoid double counting. Challenges were 
 
 * For the list of abbreviations  and acronyms, see document 
FCCC/CP/2022/8/Add.1−FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/7/Add.1 . 
 1 The SCF assists the COP in exercising its functions with respect to the Financial Mechanism, 
including in terms of measurement, reporting and verification of support provided to developing 
country Parties t hrough activities such as the BA. The SCF also serves the Paris Agreement, in line 
with its functions and responsibilities established under the COP (as per decision 1/CP.21, para. 63), 
including through the BA.  
 2 For the purpose of the overview of climat e finance in the BA, various data sources are used to 
illustrate flows from developed to developing countries, without prejudice to the meaning of those 
terms in the context of the Convention and the Paris Agreement, including but not limited to flows 
from  Annex I Parties  and Annex II Parties to non-Annex I Parties and MDBs; flows from OECD 
members to non -members; flows from OECD Development Assistance Committee  members to 
countries eligible for OECD Development Assistance Committee  official development ass istance; and 
other relevant classifications.  
 3 Decisions 2/CP.17, para.  121(f) , 1/CP.18, para.  71, 5/CP.18, para.  11, 3/CP.19, para.  11, 4/CP.24, 
paras . 4, 5 and 10, and 11/CP.25 , paras . 9–10; and decision 5/CMA .2, paras . 9–10. FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
 7 encountered in aggregating and analysing information from diverse sourc es with 
varying degrees of transparency;  
(c) In 2019, COP 25 changed the due date for submission of the fifth biennial reports 
of Annex I Parties (including Annex II Parties), which were to include information on 
climate finance provided to non -Annex I Pa rties in 2019 –2020, to no later than 31 
December 2022.4 Therefore, during preparation of the fifth BA, the SCF invited 
Annex  II Parties to provide preliminary data on climate finance provided and mobilized 
for 2019 and 2020. These preliminary data may be subject to change once fifth biennial 
reports are submitted by Parties by the end of 2022;  
(d) In the area of global climate finance, challenges remain in filling data gaps, 
particularly on private finance for adaptation activities and for mitigation activ ities in 
the AFOLU, the waste and the water and sanitation sectors. Methodologies for 
calculating climate finance based on total cost or incremental cost produce different 
estimates by activity. This potentially leads to limitations regarding the completen ess 
of data and any interpretation of the relative shares of global climate finance going to 
different themes or sectors. Energy efficiency estimates do not include data broken 
down by public or private actor financial instrument, or at country level. Some  data 
sources, such as those for renewable energy, provide activity -level data but may make 
country - and technology -level assumptions on finance flows to fill data gaps. In 
compiling data from various sources to aggregate global climate finance flows, 
approaches that ensure the avoidance of potential overlaps in coverage are taken;  
(e) Regarding domestic climate finance, although more countries are developing 
climate finance reporting systems, time lags in implementation mean data are 
underreported for 2019 –2020. Amounts in relation to public expenditure may refer to 
ex ante budget allocations or ex post actual expenditures. Furthermore, the climate 
relevance of activities reported may refer to weighted criteria per activity or to positive 
activity lists;  
(f) Data on international climate finance flows are compiled using various 
methodologies and have varying interpretations. Flows from developed to developing 
countries – covering finance provided, mobilized and received – include a mix of data 
based on dis bursements to projects and recipients in the given year or on financial 
commitments made in the reporting year to activities that may be implemented over 
several years. Information on South –South cooperation in climate finance flows 
remains relatively unde rreported. The classification of data such as by geographical 
region or by granularity is not uniform across data sources. As for previous BAs, for 
the fifth BA, no aggregation of data from different sources for finance flows from 
developed countries to de veloping countries was carried out owing to these 
challenges and limitations.  
The SCF will continue to contribute, through its activities, to the progressive 
improvement of the measurement, reporting and verification of climate finance in future 
BAs, to he lp address these challenges and limitations.  
II. Key findings  
A. Methodological issues related to transparency of climate finance  
3. New reporting tables will improve the information on climate finance submitted 
by Parties.  CMA 3 adopted new tables for reporting b y Parties under the Paris Agreement 
on climate finance provided to and mobilized for developing countries and climate finance 
needed and received by developing countries. The new tables will be used for reporting from 
the end of 2024 in biennial transparen cy reports. A number of improvements  will facilitate 
enhancing the granularity of data reported on climate finance (including sectoral and 
subsectoral data) and on whether the financial support also contributes to capacity -building 
or technology transfer, and will provide an option to report on grant -equivalent amounts of 
 
 4 Decision 6/CP.25, para. 3 .  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
8  climate finance provided and mobilized. In addition, CMA 3 requested the secretariat to 
establish an interactive web portal to facilitate the availability of information on climate 
finance  reported by Parties.5 
4. The coverage and granularity of reporting on climate finance received by 
non-Annex I Parties is improving.  The proportion of BURs that include information on 
finance received rose from approximately 60 per cent in 2014 to over 97 pe r cent in 2021. A 
total of 70 Parties have provided quantitative information on climate finance received at the 
project or activity level in tabular format. More Parties are reporting details on financial 
instruments and implementing entities and on whethe r finance received is for mitigation or 
adaptation. Information that is reported the least includes that related to the use, impacts and 
results of climate finance. Limited capacities and resources to track climate finance received 
can pose challenges for non-Annex I Parties in reporting this information, and a lack of 
reporting on the year an activity received climate finance can make it difficult to compile and 
aggregate data.  
5. Systems to track domestic public climate finance are growing in both developed  
and developing countries. Twenty -four jurisdictions have established tracking systems for 
national budgets, with a further 24 countries having methodologies for tracking climate -
relevant budgets in development. Building on previous work carried out as par t of the climate 
public expenditure and institutional reviews of the United Nations Development Programme, 
many countries are developing guidance on green budgeting frameworks that include 
climate -relevant activities. Domestic public expenditures on climat e change in 2019 –2020 
amounted to an estimated total of USD 134.2 billion (see chap. II.B below).  
6. Renewable energy, CCU/S, electrified transport, energy efficiency of buildings, 
and water management and supply are the most common mitigation activities lis ted 
across international, regional and national taxonomies or classifications . An analysis of 
12 classification lists or taxonomies related to climate change mitigation activities, including 
those of MDBs and of regional and national jurisdictions, reveale d that mitigation activities 
that appear most commonly (in more than 75 per cent of lists) are renewable energy, 
electrified transport, energy efficiency of buildings, water management and supply, and 
abatement technologies (e.g. carbon dioxide capture and  use or storage). Different eligibility 
criteria are in use for common activities relating to agriculture, waste, transport infrastructure 
and power generation (the latter including geothermal power, hydropower, bioenergy and 
efficiency improvements). Less  common activities (in 25 –75 per cent of lists) include gas -
fired power generation, waste -to-energy processes, sustainable logging, and information and 
communication technology infrastructure. Of the uncommon activities (less than 25 per cent 
of lists), no table are nuclear power generation, aviation and mining. Of the 12 taxonomies of 
countries and institutions reviewed, 10 make use of exclusion lists across mitigation sectors.  
For adaptation, most taxonomies refer to process -based screening methods rather than an 
activity list owing to adaptation activities being specific to a given local environment or 
context. The evaluation baseline for adaptation screening processes is typically based on 
environmental and climate risk and vulnerability assessments or na tional, regional or global 
resilience and biodiversity standards and codes. In addition, 7 of the 12 analysed taxonomies 
apply the ‘do no significant harm’ principle (to other environmental objectives) when 
assessing the eligibility of activities.  
7. Climate finance providers are advancing more indicators and metrics to measure 
what climate finance is achieving on the ground.  Multilateral climate funds (including the 
operating entities of the Financial Mechanism), multilateral institutions and national 
develop ment finance institutions are in the process of developing or have already developed 
frameworks for measuring outputs, outcomes and impacts of climate finance interventions, 
with the granularity of indicators and metrics increasing. Multilateral climate fu nds, in their 
results management frameworks, capture information on 141 indicators, 48 of which are core 
indicators, and most multilateral institutions, as well as bilateral contributors, use a similar 
set of mitigation and adaptation indicators. Common in dicators identified for mitigation are 
greenhouse gas emissions reduced (in t CO 2 eq) and sector -specific metrics for the energy, 
transport and land -use sectors. For adaptation, common indicators in use are the number of 
 
 5 Decision 5/CMA.3.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
 9 beneficiaries; the hectares of land  protected; and the number of policies, projects, plans, 
systems or assets that foster climate resilience. An ongoing challenge is defining and 
reporting on outcome and impact indicators that enable the long -term or indirect effects of 
climate finance inte rventions (e.g. job creation or the increased climate resilience of 
beneficiaries ) to be captured as opposed to measuring direct project outputs (e.g. number of 
beneficiaries or number of early warning systems installed). Methodologies for outcome 
measurem ent are at earlier stages of development by climate finance providers than those for 
output measurement.  
8. Increasing efforts are being made to enhance the transparency and 
comparability of approaches for tracking consistency with low -emission and climate -
resilient development pathways. Methodological developments in this area, particularly 
from the private financial sector and supervisory authorities, are in a dynamic growth phase. 
The aim of these initiatives and efforts is to offer discussion of and guida nce on appropriate 
choices of emission pathways and scenarios, emission metrics and measures, geographical 
and sector coverage, the role of carbon offsets, the formulation and implementation of 
transition plans and governance frameworks, and aggregate Pari s Agreement alignment 
indicators. In the financial sector, a focus of current approaches on decarbonization and net 
zero targets, rather than on fostering climate change adaptation and resilience, continues to 
be observed. Since the fourth BA, initiatives that seek to increase the transparency and 
understanding of approaches for tracking consistency have emerged – notable among these 
are the United Nations High -Level Expert Group on the Net -Zero Emissions Commitments 
of Non -State Entities and the Expert Pee r Review Group under the Race to Zero campaign. 
In addition, various private and public sector reports that assess approaches to alignment with 
the Paris Agreement continue to be published (see SCF documents on work under this area 
for further information) .6  
B. Overview of climate finance flows in 2019 –2020  
9. Global climate finance flows were 12 per cent higher in 2019 –2020 than in 
2017–2018, reaching an annual average of USD  803 billion, with the trend being driven 
by an increasing number of mitigation actions in buildings and infrastructure and in 
sustainable transport, as well as by growth in adaptation finance . The growth in finance 
flows in 2019 –2020 was largely driven by increased investment in the energy efficiency of 
buildings (USD 34 b illion increase), sustainable transport (USD 28 billion increase) and 
adaptation finance (USD 20 billion increase). While overall investment in clean energy 
systems remained stable, public energy investment increased its share of total finance flows. 
Adaptation finance increased by 65 per cent, from an annual average of USD 30 billion in 
2017 –2018 to USD 49 billion in 2019 –2020, driven mainly by financing from bilateral and 
multilateral development finance institutions. Figure  1 provides a breakdown, by sec tor, of 
global climate finance flows in 2017 –2020 and figure  2 provides an overview of global 
climate finance and finance flows from developed to developing countries in 2019 –2020.  
 
 6 FCCC/CP/2022/8/Add. 3−FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/7/Add. 3 and 
FCCC/CP/2022/8/Add. 4−FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/7/Add. 4.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
10  Figure 1  
Global climate finance flows in 2017 –2020 by sector  
(Billions of United States dollars ) 
 
10. The continued decline in renewable energy technology costs in 2019 –2020 compared 
with those in 2017 –2018 meant that renewable energy investments, despite the economic 
slowdown caused by the coronavirus disease 2019 pand emic, remained close to the record 
high in 2017. Technology cost decreases in 2019 –2020 compared with 2018 for onshore wind 
(13 per cent), offshore wind (9 per cent) and solar photovoltaic (7 per cent) emphasized how 
greater impacts are now achieved for ea ch new dollar invested. Aggregate investments in 
new renewable energy generation projects made up the largest segment of global climate 
finance.  The declining costs of renewable energy alongside the maintenance of high levels 
of investment indicates that t he overall deployment of renewable energy technologies has 
increased in real terms.   
11. Government pandemic recovery packages included up to USD  513 billion of 
spending allocated to green or climate -related measures (21 per cent of the total 
USD  2.5 trillion)  up until the end of 2020. Approximately 76 per cent (USD  392 billion) of 
climate -related recovery spending was announced by developed countries and the remainder 
by developing countries, particularly those in Asia. Data from climate budget tagging 
systems  and other sources indicated domestic public climate finance amounted to USD  134 
billion per year in 2019 –2020, half of which was in 21 developing countries and the other 
half in 6 developed countries or jurisdictions.  
Figure 2  
Climate finance flows in 20 19–2020   
(Billions of United States dollars, annualized)  
 
FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
 11  
Notes: (1) Figure note (a): other mitigation investments include industry, waste and wastewater, information and communications 
technology and other cross -sectoral investments; (2) Figure note (b ): includes investments from amounts listed by sector above that are 
discounted when calculating the global aggregate to avoid double counting; (3) Figure note (c): flows are from developed to d eveloping 
countries, see section 2.5.2 of the technical report  of the fifth BA for further information; (4) Figure note (c): estimates include private 
finance mobilized through public interventions by developed countries; (5) Figure note (d): this includes private finance in addition to 
finance mobilized through bila teral and multilateral channels and institutions.  
12. Public climate finance flows from developed to developing countries increased 
by between 6 and 17 per cent, depending on the source, in 2019 –2020 compared with 
2017–2018 . Preliminary data from Annex II Part ies on climate -specific finance provided for 
2019 –2020 showed that it increased by 6 per cent from 2017 –2018 to USD 40.1 billion per 
year on average. Most of the climate -specific finance (79 per cent) was channelled through 
FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
12  bilateral, regional and other ch annels, with the remainder consisting of contributions or 
inflows to multilateral climate funds and multilateral financial institutions.  
13. Mitigation finance constituted the largest share of climate -specific financial support 
through bilateral, regional and  other channels, at 57 per cent (USD 17.9 billion). However, 
the share of adaptation finance continued to increase – from 20 per cent (USD 6.4 billion) in 
2017 –2018 to 28 per cent (USD  8.9 billion) in 2019 –2020 – as it grew at a higher rate than 
mitigation  finance. In 2019 –2020, adaptation finance through bilateral, regional and other 
channels grew 40 per cent while mitigation finance decreased by 13 per cent. The share of 
cross -cutting finance, which serves both mitigation and adaptation purposes,  stagnate d at 14 –
15 per cent (USD  4.4 billion and USD 4.7 billion) in 2017 –2018 and 2019 –2020, 
respectively.  
14. UNFCCC funds and multilateral climate funds approved a combined USD 2.9 billion 
and USD 3.5 billion for climate change projects in 2019 and 2020 respective ly. The annual 
average for 2019 –2020 (USD  3.2 billion) represents an increase of 21 per cent compared 
with the annual average for 2017 –2018, attributable primarily to increases in project 
approvals by the GEF Council, the GCF Board and the Clean Technology  Fund. In terms of 
inflows, the GEF raised USD  5.3 billion from 29 contributors under the GEF -8 replenishment 
in 2022 for the programming period 2022 –2026, an increase of more than 30 per cent 
compared with the amount raised under GEF -7. Under GEF -8, USD 8 52 million was 
allocated to the climate change focal area for mitigation, an increase of 6 per cent compared 
with the amount allocated under GEF -7. The Adaptation Fund registered USD 356 million 
in new pledges from 16 donors at COP 26, which is more than t riple the amount it raised in 
2020 ( USD  116 million) .  
15. MDBs provided USD  46 billion and USD  45 billion in climate finance to developing 
and emerging economies in 2019 and 2020 respectively. The annual average of USD  45.9 
billion in 2019 –2020 represents a 1 7 per cent increase compared with the 2017 –2018 amount. 
The attribution of these flows from developed to developing countries is calculated at 
USD  29.3–30.5 billion in 2019 and USD  28.2–33.2 billion in 2020.  
16. Data on private climate finance flows to develop ing countries remain challenging to 
compile and assess. There is a methodological difference between measuring private finance 
for climate action in general and measuring climate finance mobilized through public 
interventions.  With e xisting methodologies a nd approaches, tracking private finance 
mobilized by technical assistance or policy interventions is difficult. Further, data sources 
often do not specify whether private funds are sourced from private sector entities in 
developed or developing countries a nd whether these funds are received by public or private 
sector entities from developed or developing countries. OECD estimates that private climate 
finance mobilized by developed countries through bilateral and multilateral channels 
amounted to USD  14.4 b illion and USD  13.1 billion in 2019 and 2020 respectively. The 
annual average of USD  13.8 billion represents a 6 per cent decrease compared with the annual 
average of USD  14.6 billion in 2017 –2018.  
17. The increase in submissions of BURs from non -Annex I Part ies resulted in a greater 
amount of information on finance being available for the fifth BA than for previous BAs. 
However, time lags in data availability for reporting made it difficult to compile updated, 
complete information on finance received in 2019 –2020. Of the 79 Parties that had submitted 
BURs as at 30 June 2022, 28 included some information on climate finance received in 2019 
or 2020 in their reports. In total, USD  10.0 billion was reported as received for projects 
starting in 2019 and USD  1.6 bil lion for projects starting in 2020. Approximately 81 per cent 
of the 2019 amount was specified as coming from bilateral institutions in developed countries 
or multilateral institutions and 15 per cent from institutions based in developing countries; 
the or igin of the finance was unspecified for the remaining amount.  
18. Trends in South –South climate finance flows varied depending on the source of 
finance . Finance commitments from International Development Finance Club members 
based in non -OECD countries to pro jects in other non -OECD countries amounted to USD  1.7 
billion and USD  2.2 billion in 2019 and 2020 respectively, which represented a substantial 
decrease from the USD  4.1 billion committed in 2018. The Asian Infrastructure Investment 
Bank and the New Devel opment Bank continued to increase finance flows, and FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
 13 MDB -attributed financing from non -Annex II Parties increased from around USD  9.1 billion 
in 2017 –2018 to an annual average of USD  11.0 billion in 2019 –2020. Investments in 
renewable energy and sustainabl e transport projects decreased from an annual average of 
USD  3.2 billion in 2017 –2018 to USD  2.6 billion in 2019 –2020. Overall, the availability of 
data on and the coverage of climate finance flows between developing countries remain 
limited.  
C. Assessment of  climate finance flows  
19. The collective goal of jointly mobilizing USD  100 billion per year by 2020 to 
address the needs of developing countries in the context of meaningful mitigation action 
and transparency on implementation was not fully met in 2020 .7 
20. More public finance flows from developed to developing countries are for 
mitigation than for adaptation, yet adaptation finance has grown significantly through 
bilateral channels and MDBs.  In 2019 –2020, on average, mitigation had a 57 per cent share 
(USD  17.9 billion) of bilateral climate finance, a 37 per cent share (USD  1.2 billion) of 
multilateral climate fund climate finance and a 62 per cent share (USD  23.6 billion) of MDB 
climate finance, while adaptation had corresponding shares of 28, 19 and 36 per cent 
(USD  9.0 billion, USD  605 million and USD  13.8 billion respectively). Since 2017 –2018, 
adaptation finance from bilateral channels has grown by 39 per cent (USD  2.5 billion) and 
from MDBs by 48 per cent (USD  6 billion), while adaptation finance from mu ltilateral 
climate funds has remained constant. The share of public climate finance flows contributing 
to both  adaptation and mitigation from multilateral climate funds rose to 35 per cent (USD  1.1 
billion) in 2019 –2020 from 27 per cent (USD  785 million) i n 2017 –2018. When assessing 
the balance of finance between mitigation and adaptation, it is worth considering different 
approaches to measuring climate finance flows and considering whether data are adjusted by 
the financial instrument providing the resour ces. Information on face -value financial volume 
can be complemented with information on grant -based equivalent financial volume (as is 
done by the GCF to assess its mitigation and adaptation split). The number of interventions 
and information on how differ ent institutions allocate finance can also help inform 
discussions on balance.  
21. Public adaptation finance is predominantly delivered through grants while 
public mitigation finance predominantly takes the form of loans. In 2019 –2020, grants 
accounted for 57 and 99 per cent (USD  8.5 billion and USD  1.2 billion) of the face value of 
bilateral adaptation finance and of adaptation finance from multilateral climate funds 
respectively, compared with 64 and 95 per cent (USD  5.9 billion and USD  1.1 billion) 
respectiv ely in 2017 –2018. In 2019 –2020, 15 per cent of adaptation finance flowing through 
the MDBs was grant -based (USD  2.1 billion) (see figure 3). Mitigation finance remains less 
grant -based in nature, with 31 per cent of bilateral flows (USD  4.6 billion), 30 pe r cent of 
multilateral climate fund approvals (USD  865 million) and less than 5 per cent of MDB 
investments (USD  1.1 billion) taking the form of grants.  
 
 7 For more information see document FCCC/CP/2022/8−FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/7 . FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
14  Figure 3  
Public  climate finance flows from developed to developing countries  in 2019–2020,  by 
theme , source  and financial instrument   
 
Source: Analysis of OECD Development Assistance Committee Creditor Reporting System 
statistics and Climate Funds Update.  
22. Reflecting their geographical and population sizes, Asia and Africa are the 
regions receiving the largest total amounts of public climate finance. Asia received the 
most climate finance for adaptation and mitigation projects and programmes from bilateral 
channels, multilateral climate funds and MDBs, with an average of 36 per cent of the total 
climate finance provided. Asia was followed by Africa (average of 27 per cent) and Latin 
America and the Caribbean (average of 16 per cent). The remainder was shared among 
developing countries of Eastern and Southern Europe and Oceania.8 On a per capita basis, 
the less populous developing country regions Oceania and Eastern and Southern Europe 
received the largest amounts of climate finance (USD  5.1–49.5 and USD  1.0–84.2 
respectively), followed by Latin America and the Caribbean (USD  0.8–10.7), Africa 
(USD  0.6–8.4) and Asia (USD  0.2–4.0). These data do not, however, consider differing costs 
for climate change solutions in different regions,  adjust for purchasing power or address  the 
relative scale of climate vulnerabilities or emission reduction potential .  
23. Support provided to the LDCs and SIDS as a proportion of overall public climate 
finance flows remained relatively stable compared with previous years . In 2019 –2020, 
funding provided to the LDCs accounted for 25 per cent of bilateral flows, 26 per cent of 
approvals from multilateral climate funds and 20 per cent of MDB climate finance. While 
bilateral channels and MDBs increased their adaptation finance commitments to the LDCs 
from 2017 –2018 to 2019 –2020, multilateral climate funds decreased their adaptation finance 
while doubling their mitigation finance from 2017 –2018 to 2019 –2020.  
24. In 2019 –2020, funding provided to the SIDS accounted for 3 per cent of bilateral 
flows,  7 per cent of approvals from multilateral climate funds and 2 per cent of MDB climate 
 
 8 The fifth BA, for the first time, presented a geographical breakdown of public bilateral sources, 
multilateral climate funds and MDBs with a unified regional classification in accord ance with  the 
standard country or area codes for statistical use (M49) of  the U nited Nations  Statistics Division. 
Only non -Annex I Parties  were  included in the country grouping analysis.   
FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
 15 finance. International public climate finance flows to SIDS are predominantly adaptation 
focused. Grant finance plays a strong role in SIDS, ranging from 43 to 89 per ce nt across the 
channels analysed. The LDCs and SIDS have specific vulnerabilities and needs, which are 
partially reflected in the climate finance provided to them on a per capita basis. Per capita 
climate finance reached USD  3.6–16.9 for SIDS and USD  0.8–9.4 for the LDCs in 
2019 –2020 (see figure 4).  
Figure 4  
Geographical distribution of climate finance by volume and on a per capita  basis in 
2019–2020  
  
25. Between 2016 and 2020, private climate finance mobilized by developed 
countries for developing countries  through bilateral and multilateral channels totalled 
USD  66.8 billion.  Of this amount, 86 per cent was mobilized for mitigation actions, 
particularly in the energy sector (53 per cent of total mobilized finance in the five -year 
period). Private finance mo bilized for adaptation actions targeted industry, mining and 
construction. Private climate finance was mobilized through number of mechanisms, 
dominated by direct investment in companies and special purpose vehicles, which together 
accounted for 44 per cen t of the total. MDBs mobilized 57 per cent of total estimated private 
climate finance, followed by bilateral providers and multilateral climate funds. SIDS and the 
LDCs received 1 and 8 per cent respectively of total private finance mobilized.  
26. Accreditatio n to multilateral climate funds increased by 36 per cent in 
2019–2020, driven by a rising number of national and regional institutions being 
accredited; however, while national and regional accredited entities now account for 
FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
16  more than half of all accredi ted entities, they accounted for only 10 per cent of financial 
outflows in 2019 –2020.  Climate finance readiness and project preparation initiatives play a 
key role in facilitating access to climate finance. The number of partners through which 
developing c ountries can access multilateral climate funds continues to grow rapidly, driven 
by GCF accreditation. Efforts are under way to enhance access beyond national and regional 
entities, by supporting access at the local level .  
27. Interest in country platforms th at facilitate country ownership of climate finance 
flows and their alignment with national priorities is emerging.  Country ownership is a 
fundamental factor in the delivery of effective finance but is also a broad concept 
encompassing active stakeholder en gagement, links between climate policies and economic 
growth and development policies, and national spending and tracking systems for climate 
finance. Recent studies drawing on experience from development cooperation suggest that to 
be successful in stimul ating climate action, country platforms need to secure and maintain 
political will, coordinate public finance from multiple channels and harness private 
investment. Also important is that country platforms are tailored to country needs and 
priorities.  
28. Repo rted expected and actual results from climate finance providers indicate an 
increase in portfolio -level emission reductions and number of beneficiaries reached . 
Multilateral climate funds reported a combined 96.3 Mt CO 2 eq emission reductions achieved 
and 54.8 million beneficiaries reached through their interventions. Expected results from the 
portfolios of approved or currently implemented projects are orders of magnitude higher, for 
example, 1,980 Mt CO 2 eq emission reduc tions and 588 million direct and indirect 
beneficiaries in the GCF portfolio alone. While multilateral climate funds are increasing their 
transparency and reporting under their results frameworks more regularly, they face 
persistent challenges in impact me asurement, namely, that direct project output indicators are 
easier to define that outcome indicators and that reporting on actual results is largely 
dependent on the reporting capacity of implementing entities. MDBs present mitigation and 
adaptation outco mes to varying degrees against their results and impact frameworks, often 
for their entire portfolios rather than on climate -specific support, while bilateral contributors 
have differing approaches to impact reporting. In general, it takes at least several  years before 
being able to report on outcomes and impacts of approved and implemented projects 
supported by climate finance, and this time lag poses challenges for comprehensive portfolio 
impact reporting.  
29. The way in which gender issues are addressed und er the governance and 
operational frameworks of the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism and 
multilateral climate funds has improved.  However, the development of systems for 
monitoring and reporting on gender -related outcomes at the project and po rtfolio level is still 
in progress, as is the building of capacity of the operating entities to implement gender -
responsive policies. This suggests work remains to be done on strengthening gender 
mainstreaming efforts and the availability of gender -disaggr egated and other gender -related 
data to evaluate outcomes.  
30. Global climate finance flows are small relative to the overall needs of developing 
countries. Global climate finance in 2019 –2020 was estimated to be USD  803 billion. This 
amount is 31 –32 per cent of the annual investment needed for the global temperature rise to 
follow a well below 2  °C or a 1.5  °C pathway. This level of climate finance is also below 
what one would expect in the light of the investment opportunities identified and the cost of 
failure to meet climate stabilization targets.  
31. More can be done to ensure that finance flows are consistent with climate change 
objectives. Such efforts include the reform of fiscal policies, financial policies and 
regulations and the integration and managemen t of climate risk for financial decision -making 
processes by private actors and the financial sector, with care taken in all circumstances to 
manage a just and equitable transition for all.  
32. Given the scale and speed of effort needed to align finance flows with low -emission, 
climate -resilient development pathways, it is critical to consider climate finance flows within 
the context of broader finance flows (see figure 5). A sole focus on positive climate finance 
flows will be insufficient to meet the overarch ing purpose and goals of the Paris Agreement. FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
 17 This does not mean that broader finance flows must all have explicit beneficial climate 
outcomes, but it does mean that they must integrate climate risks into decision -making and 
avoid increasing the likelihood  of negative climate outcomes.  
Figure 5  
Global climate finance in the context of broader finance flows, opportunities and costs  
 
Notes: (1) Data points are provided to place climate finance in context and do not represent an 
aggregate or systematic view; (2) All flows are global and annual averages for 2019 –2020 unless 
otherwise stated; (3) The representation of stocks that overlap is not necessarily reflective of real -world 
overlaps. The flows are not representative of all flows contributing to the stocks ; (4) Climate finance 
flows are those represented in section B of the summary and recommendations and chapter 2 of the 
fifth BA technical report; (5) For data sources, see chapter 3 of the fifth BA technical report.  
33. Across the key areas of climate finance identified through the recommendations 
arising from previous BAs, the findings of the fifth BA reveal both progress and continuing 
challenges, as presented in the table below.  
FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
18  Following up on recommendations from previous BAs: progress and challenges  
Area of recommendationa Progress  Challenges  
Improve transparency of reporting 
of climate finance provided and 
received  
(a), (b), (c), (d)  Improved reporting tables agreed for 
implementation in 2024  
Increasing number of developing 
countries reporting on climate finance 
received  Limited capacities and resources to 
track climate finance received and 
report on the impacts and outcomes of 
climate finance  
Improve data coverage, granularity 
and tracking of flows from all 
sources, includi ng developing 
country Parties, international 
financial institutions and private 
finance data providers  
(e), (f), (g), (h)  Increasing data coverage for financing 
of electric vehicles, climate finance 
mobilized and domestic climate finance 
reporting  Scarcity  of data on energy efficiency, 
the AFOLU sector, buildings, 
industrial sectors and adaptation, in 
particular from the private sector, as 
well as on South –South cooperation  
Align climate finance with national 
needs, plans, climate change 
frameworks and priorities, 
enhancing country ownership  
(j), (l), (p)  Significantly increased number of 
direct access entities and national 
implementing entities and other 
accredited entities of multilateral 
climate funds  
Growing number of national 
investme nt plans and strategies to 
target climate finance  
Publication of needs determination 
report  Finance flows channelled through 
regional and national entities remain 
low  
Lack of support for local -level access 
beyond national or regional entities  
Methodologic al, capacity and data 
limitations in development of project 
pipelines  
Balance funding for mitigation and 
adaptation  
(l) Increase in adaptation finance of 39  
and 48 per cent through bilateral 
channels and MDBs respectively  
since 2017 –2018  
Achievement by GCF of a 50:50 balance 
in mitigation and adaptation  
on a grant -equivalent basis  
Most adaptation finance from bilateral 
channels and multilateral climate funds  
now in the form of grant finance  Difficulties in costing adaptation 
needs to inform assessments of 
balance  
Different accounting approaches 
applied for mitigation and adaptation 
finance to inform assessment of 
balance  
Encourage the uptake of available 
resources to strengthen 
institutional capacities for 
programming climate action and 
tracking climate finance  
(k), (l)  21 dedicated access, readiness and 
project preparation support modalities 
offered by multilateral climate funds  
48 identified n ational climate funds in 
countries that are not OECD members  
48 jurisdictions with domestic climate 
finance tracking systems, and 35 
taxonomies formulated by 30 
jurisdictions and 5 international or 
national organizations  Different funding requirements of 
diverse climate finance actors  
Time lag in reporting from nascent 
domestic climate finance tracking  
Improve tracking and reporting of 
the impacts of climate finance, 
including the incorporation of 
‘climate proofing’ and climate 
resilience measures in line with 
new scientific information  
(n), (o)  Increased granularity of impact 
measurement frameworks (three 
multilateral climate funds have adopted 
revised frameworks since 2018)  
Wide availability of expected results 
reporting  
Initial development of transf ormational 
change indicators  Limited ex post results data in 
reporting chains  
Limited availability of climate finance 
specific portfolio -level impact 
reporting from MDBs and bilateral 
sources  
Trade -offs between results 
measurement comparability and 
context -specific impact measurement 
(including at the country, local and 
sectoral level)  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
 19 Area of recommendationa Progress  Challenges  
Limited approaches for measuring 
transformational change  
Improve tracking and reporting of 
gender -related aspects of climate 
finance  
(m) Gender mainstreaming in governance 
and operational frameworks of climate 
finance contributors (all multilateral 
climate funds with revised frameworks 
or policies since 2018)  Limited implementing capacities and 
availability of gender -disaggregated 
data on outcomes and impacts  
Update data sets and information 
relevant to Article 2, paragraph 
1(c), of the Paris Agreement  
(i), (q)  Global proliferation of private and 
public sector actor approaches for 
aligning finance flows  Lack of data on implementation of 
Paris alignment approach es and on 
common standards in approaches to 
prevent greenwashing – this 
complicates evaluation of approaches  
a   Letters in parentheses denote the relevant recommendation from para. 51 of the summary and recommendations of the third (2018 ) 
BA (available at https://unfccc.int/BA -2018 ). No recommendations were included in the fourth (2020) BA.  
III. Recommendations  
34. The SCF invites the COP and the CMA to consider the recommendations presented 
in chapter III.A –C below. The three sets of recommendations relate to chapter II.A –C above.  
A. Methodological issues related to climate finance  flows  
35. Recommendations on methodological issues related to climate finance flows are as follows:  
(a) Encourage  Parties to report on climate finance provided, mobilized, needed 
and received in the new common tabular format for their first biennial transparency report to 
the highest level of granularity possible, taking into account the flexibility for those countries 
that need it in the light of their capacities, in accordance with the modalities, procedures and 
guidelines of the enhanced transparency framework under the Paris Agreement, in particular 
to report annual activity -level data;  
(b) Encourage  Parties to adopt or follow green - and climate -budgeting approaches 
and improve or establish climate finance tracking systems at the domestic level to inform 
their impl ementation of nationally determined contributions and adaptation communications;  
(c) Encourage  climate finance providers and recipients to report climate finance 
provided, mobilized, needed and received at both the activity - and the country -level;  
(d) Encourage  climate finance and data providers to further improve the data and 
the methodologies necessary for tracking private finance mobilized by developed countries, 
and others in a position to do so, through technical assistance, policy support and other public 
interventions for climate action in developing countries;  
(e) Encourage  Parties and climate finance providers to enhance their 
methodologies for measuring and reporting on climate finance results and impacts;  
(f) Encourage  Parties and climate finance providers to enhance their reporting on 
the qualitative aspects of climate finan ce, including policies, approaches and other factors 
related to strong enabling environments and delivering results;  
(g) Encourage  Parties, through the enhanced transparency framework and taking 
into account the work of the SCF on definitions of climate financ e, to better track climate 
finance provided, mobilized, needed and received;  
(h) Encourage  climate finance providers and data aggregators, in keeping with 
social inclusion and the potential value of information and data from the informal private 
sector and fro m local and indigenous communities, as well as noting the usefulness of proxy 
data, to incorporate into their systems the tracking of climate finance flows and impacts 
relating to these stakeholders;  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
20  (i) Encourage  climate finance providers to enhance their rep orting on elements 
relevant to Article 2, paragraph 1(c), of the Paris Agreement, thus increasing the ability to 
advance work related to pathways for low -emission, climate -resilient development.  
B. Overview of climate finance flows  
36. Recommendations on the o verview of climate finance flows  are as follows:  
(a) Encourage  climate finance providers, including multilateral and other financial 
institutions, relevant non -financial institutions and data providers, when reporting on climate 
finance, to enhance the availabil ity of granular, country -level data on finance for adaptation and 
resilience as well as on finance for mitigation in the AFOLU and the water and sanitation sectors;  
(b)  Encourage  climate finance providers and recipients to further enhance the 
tracking of priv ate climate finance, in particular for adaptation activities;  
(c)  Invite  private sector associations and financial institutions to build on the 
progress made on ways to improve data on climate finance and to engage with the SCF, 
including through their partic ipation in the forums of the SCF with a view to enhancing the 
quality of the BA.  
C. Assessment of climate finance flows  
37. Recommendations on the assessment of climate finance flows  are as follows:  
(a) Encourage  climate finance providers to continue to enhance count ry 
ownership and consider policies to improve the balance between support for mitigation and 
adaptation at the global level, taking into account country -driven approaches and recipient 
country capacities and priorities;  
(b) Encourage  climate finance providers to enhance access and increase climate 
finance for the LDCs and SIDS;  
(c) Encourage  developed countries, other climate finance providers and recipients 
to continue to enhance access to climate finance, including by addressing the barriers to 
access arising fro m the complex architecture of multilateral climate funds, and to enhance 
country ownership through supporting modalities such as direct access entity and national 
implementing entity accreditation, readiness and project preparation facilities  and 
subnation al- and local -level access programmes;  
(d) Encourage  development finance institutions, in particular MDBs, to continue 
their essential role in helping developing countries to deliver on their nationally determined 
contributions by expanding climate investment through either expanding the availability of 
development assistance or boosting climate -related investment directly;  
(e) Encourage  developing countries to take advantage of available modalities and 
to advance in -country efforts to strengthen institutional capa cities for climate change 
programming and for tracking its effectiveness and impacts;  
(f) Encourage  climate finance providers and recipients to improve the tracking 
and reporting of portfolio -level results in terms of the impacts and outcomes of climate 
financ e and advance the development of indicators for measuring the outcomes of climate 
finance interventions;  
(g) Encourage  climate finance providers and recipients to improve the tracking, 
reporting and dissemination of best practices in relation to the gender -related aspects of 
climate finance, impacts of climate finance interventions and gender -responsive budgeting;  
(h) Request  the SCF, in preparing the sixth BA, to follow up on the 
recommendations made in this and previous BAs.  
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
 FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
 21   Decision 15/CP.27  
  Terms of reference for the second review of the functions of 
the Standing Committee on Finance  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  decisions 6/CP.20, 6/CP.21, 8/CP.22, 9/CP.22, 8/CP.23, 4/CP.24, 
11/CP.25, 5/CP.26, 5/CMA.2 and 10/CMA.3,  
1. Adopts  the terms of reference for the second review of the functions1 of the Standing 
Committee on Finance, contained in the annex;  
2. Takes note  of the  2022 report of the Standing Committee on Finance to the  Conference 
of the Parties and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Paris Agreement,2 in particular its annex II;  
3. Invites  members of the Standing Committee on F inance, Parties, UNFCCC 
constituted bodies and external stakeholders to submit via the submission portal,3 by 
30 April  2023, their views on the second review of the functions of the Standing Committee 
on Finance based on the terms of reference contained i n the annex for consideration by the 
Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its fifty -eighth session (June 2023);  
4. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation, at its fifty -eighth session, to initiate 
the second review of the functions of the Standing Co mmittee on Finance, in accordance with 
the terms of reference, taking into account the submissions referred to in paragraph 3 above;  
5. Also requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to complete its work on the 
second review of the functions of the Stan ding Committee on Finance at its fifty -ninth session 
(November –December 2023) with a view to recommending draft decisions on the matter for 
consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -eighth session and 
the Conference of the P arties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at 
its fifth session (November –December 2023);  
6. Further requests  the secretariat to prepare a technical paper on the second review of 
the functions of the Standing Committee on Finance, in accordance with the terms of 
reference, taking into account the deliberations and conclusions of the Subsidiary Body for 
Implementa tion at its fifty -eighth session and the submissions referred to in paragraph 3 
above, for consideration by the Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its fifty -ninth session;  
7. Invites  the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to th e Paris 
Agreement to affirm this decision, including the terms of reference, with respect to the review 
of the functions of the Standing Committee on Finance as it relates to the Paris Agreement;  
8. Takes note  of decision 15/CMA.4 on the review of the functions of the Standing 
Committee on Finance.
 
 1 Pursuant to decision 11/CP.25, para. 17.  
 2 FCCC/CP/2022/8 –FCCC/PA/CMA/2022/7 . 
 3 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx . FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
22  Annex  
Terms of reference for the second review of the functions of 
the Standing Committee on Finance  
I. Objective  
1. The objective of the second review is to review the functions of the Standing 
Committee on Finance (SCF) with a view to:  
(a) Strengthening the work of the SCF, as appropriate;  
(b) Identifying opportunities for increased efficiency and effectiveness;  
(c) Informing Parties on the extent to which the existing activities and working 
modalities of the SCF facilitate the fulfil ment of  its mandate to serve the Paris Agreement in 
line with deci sion 1/CP.21, paragraph 63;  
(d) Taking into account interrelated review processes, such as the review of the 
Financial Mechanism.  
II. Scope  
2. The scope of the review will cover progress to date and lessons learned in the 
fulfilment of the mandate of the SCF to assis t the Conference of the Parties (COP) and serve 
the Paris Agreement in the exercise of its functions with respect to the Financial Mechanism. 
In this context, the review should:  
(a) Be based on the current mandate and functions of the SCF;  
(b) Be informed by the work on climate finance conducted by other entities;  
(c) Examine whether any gaps exist in the delivery of the work of the SCF and 
how they can be addressed, taking into consideration the capacity of the SCF to deliver its 
work.  
3. The review should address the f ollowing elements:  
(a) Assessment of the extent to which the SCF has effectively delivered on its four 
core functions and mandated activities1 outlined in relevant decisions and, in this regard, take 
stock of past achievements of the SCF in terms of its concr ete outputs and how they have 
been utilized;  
(b) Identification of the potential need for reorientation or reprioritization of the 
existing functions of the SCF;  
(c) Assessment of whether the working modalities of the SCF, including the 
participation of its member s, are fit for purpose for carrying out its functions;  
(d) Quality of outputs;  
(e) Linkages with the constituted bodies under the Convention and the Paris 
Agreement;  
(f) Relations with relevant external stakeholders.  
III. Sources of information  
4. The review shall draw upon, inter alia, the following sources of information:  
 
1 As per decision 2/CP.17.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
 23 (a) Submissions from members of the SCF, Parties to the Convention and the Paris 
Agreement, and the constituted bodies under the Convention and the Paris Agreement, as 
well as external stakeholders involved in the activities of the SCF;  
(b) Annual reports of the SCF;  
(c) Relevant decisions of the COP and the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement (CMA) relating to the SCF;  
(d) Outputs delivered by the SCF;  
(e) The self -assessment report of the SCF and recommendations on improving its 
efficiency and effectiveness;  
(f) The technical paper , to be prepared by the secretariat , referred to in paragraph  6 
of this decision.  
IV. Criteria  
5. The review shall take into account, inter alia, the following:  
(a) The effectiveness and efficiency of the SCF in the delivery of its functions;  
(b) The transparency of its decision -making processes;  
(c) The inclusiveness and geographical representation of the SCF;  
(d) The level and nature of its stakeholder engagement;  
(e) The quality and added value of the outputs of the SCF, including how they 
were received by the COP, the CMA and external stakeholders, and in particular how its 
recommendations have informed and advanced the work of the COP and the CMA;  
(f) The timeliness of the outputs of the SCF.  
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
 FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
24    Decision 16/CP.27  
  Report of the Green Climate Fund to the Conference of the 
Parties and guidance to the Green Climate Fund  
The Conference of the Parties ,  
Recalling decision 3/CP.17, annex,  
1. Welcomes  the report of the Green Climate Fund to the Conference of the Parties at its 
twenty -seventh session and its addendum,1 including the information on actions taken by the 
Board of the Green Climate Fund in response to guidance received from the Conference of 
the Parties;  
2. Also welcomes  the ongoing efforts of the Green Climate Fund to make a significant 
and ambitious contribution to the global efforts towards attaining the goals set by the 
international community to combat climate change and adapting to its i mpacts and 
contributing to the achievement of the objective of the Convention, while taking into account 
the needs of developing countries;  
3. Further welcomes  the progress under the Green Climate Fund in 2022, including in 
relation to actions taken by the Bo ard in response to guidance provided by the Conference of 
the Parties:  
(a) The increase in the number of funding proposals approved, which brings the 
total amount approved by the Board to USD 11.3 billion to support implementation of 209 
adaptation and mitigat ion projects and programmes in 128 developing countries;  
(b) The increase in the number of entities accredited by the Board, which brings 
the total number of accredited entities to 114, of which 72 are direct access entities;  
(c) The increase in the approval of gr ants for readiness support for national 
adaptation plans and other adaptation planning processes, bringing the total number of grants 
approved to 87;  
(d) The update of the Simplified Approval Process, including increasing the Green 
Climate Fund funding amount per proposal to USD 25 million and introducing further 
simplification;  
(e) The adoption of the updated accreditation framework, which includes the 
implementation of the project -specific assessment approach as a complementary modality to 
the institutional accre ditation process, and the adoption of an accreditation strategy;  
(f) The adoption of decisions concerning guidance on the Green Climate Fund 
vision, approach and scope for providing support to enhance climate adaptation, and on 
principles for demonstrating the impact potential of mitigation and adaptation activities;  
(g) The ad option of the Private Sector Strategy;  
(h) The adoption of a policy for minimizing the effect of currency fluctuations;  
(i) The operationalization of the integrated results management framework;  
(j) The operationalization of the Indigenous Peoples Advisory Group;  
(k) The continued collaboration of the Green Climate Fund with the Adaptation 
Committee, the Climate Technology Centre and Network, the Least Developed Countries 
Expert Group and the Technology Executive Committee;  
4. Requests  the Board to ensure that the conditions it applies to projects are not 
inconsistent with approved policies and procedures;  
 
 1  FCCC/CP/2022/4  and Add.1 .  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
 25 5. Welcomes  the Fund’s ongoing work to develop the Strategic Plan for the Green 
Climate Fund for 2024 –2027;  
6. Also welcomes  the launch of the second replenishment of the Green C limate Fund , for 
the period 1 January 2024 to 31 December 2027 , and recalls  that the Fund will receive 
financial inputs from developed country Parties to the Convention and may receive financial 
inputs from a variety of other sources, public and private, i ncluding alternative sources;2 
7. Requests  the Board to continue to enhance coherence and complementarity of the 
Green Climate Fund with other relevant bilateral, regional and global funding mechanisms 
and institutions to better mobilize the full range of fi nancial and technical capacities;  
8. Underscores  the importance of the Green Climate Fund’s role in supporting the 
implementation of actions associated with developing countries’ adaptation priorities and 
urges  the Board to improve technical and capacity -building support for the development of 
projects and programmes based on national adaptation plans in line with the Board’s 
approved guidance on support for adaptation;3 
9. Requests  the Board to continue to enhance support for the formulation and 
implementation of national adaptation plans to enable developing countries to take effective 
adaptation action;  
10. Welcomes  the continued support of the Board under the Readiness and Preparator y 
Support Programme for enhancing support for technology development and transfer and 
capacity -building and encourages  the Board to continue to support developing countries in 
this regard;  
11. Also encourages  the Board to continue work on the request for proposals to establish 
technology incubators and accelerators in developing countries;  
12. Requests  the Board to continue to accredit direct access entities, especially national 
and regional entities and instituti ons, in line with the updated accreditation framework and 
accreditation strategy, focusing on countries and regions with no or few accredited entities;  
13. Urges  the Board to maintain the balance it has approved between finance for 
adaptation  and that for miti gation over time and to provide ambitious levels of adaptation 
support, emphasizing the need for adaptation as stated in decision 7/CP.20, paragraph 12;  
14. Requests  the Board to continue to address the needs of developing countries that are 
particularly vulne rable to the adverse effects of climate change;  
15. Invites  the Board to enhance support for the least developed countries, small island 
developing States and other developing countries in developing project pipelines and 
proposals, as well as for adaptation a ctions associated with the priorities in their national 
adaptation plans;  
16. Encourages  the Board to continue supporting results -based payments through policy 
approaches and incentives for enhancing the contributions of developing countries to global 
mitigati on efforts through the implementation of activities relating to reducing emissions 
from deforestation and forest degradation, conserving forest carbon stocks, sustainably 
managing forests and enhancing forest carbon stocks;4 
17. Invites the Board to support t he comprehensive implementation of the Fund’s Private 
Sector Strategy and in this context support the Fund’s engagement with the private sector, in 
particular local private sector actors and micro -, small and medium -sized enterprises, to 
catalyse climate f inance at scale, promote technical innovation and de -risk investments, 
including by providing early -stage and grant -based financing to the local private sector and 
start-ups in developing countries;  
 
 2 Governing Instrument for the Green Climate Fund, paras. 29 –30. 
 3 In accordance with decision 1/CP.21, para. 46.  
 4 As referred to in decision 1/CP.16 , para. 70, and decision 1/CP.13, para . 1(b)( iii).  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
26  18. Requests  the Board to consider enhancing ambition in the next version of its gender 
policy and invites  the Board to take into account the implementation of the enhanced Lima 
work programme and its gender action plan within its existing guidance;  
19. Encourages  the Board to consider enhancing the provision of support  through the 
Readiness and Preparatory Support Programme for the development of national and 
subnational gender strategies, as they relate to climate, and consider further strengthening the 
gender programming of Green Climate Fund activities through suppor ting the 
implementation of the policies and projects therein;  
20. Urges  the Board to continue incorporating indigenous peoples’ and local 
communities’ interests, perspectives, knowledge and climate priorities into its decision -
making, including through its ind igenous peoples policy and the recommendations of the 
Indigenous Peoples Advisory Group as well as through continued engagement with, inter 
alia, the Facilitative Working Group of the Local Communities and Indigenous Peoples 
Platform and the International Indigenous Peoples’ Forum on Climate Change;  
21. Invites  Parties to submit to the secretariat views and recommendations on elements of 
guidance for the Green Climate Fund via the submission portal5 no later than 10 weeks prior 
to the twenty -eighth session of the Conference of the Parties (November –December 2023);  
22. Requests  the Standing Committee on Finance to take into consideration the 
submissions referred to in paragraph 21 above in preparing its draft guidance for the Green 
Climate Fund for consideration by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -eighth session 
and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement 
at its fifth session (November –December 2023);  
23. Also requests  the Board to include in its annual report  to the Conference of the Parties 
information on the steps it has taken to implement the guidance provided in this decision;  
24. Takes note  of decision 16/CMA.4 and decides  to transmit to the Green Climate Fund 
the guidance from the Conference of the Parties s erving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Paris Agreement contained in paragraphs 2 –7 of that decision.6 
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
 
 
 5  https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx .  
 6  In accordance with decision 1/CP.21, para. 61.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
 27   Decision 17/CP.27  
  Report of the Global Environment Facility to the Conference 
of the Parties and guidance to the Global Environment 
Facility  
The Conference of the Parties  
1. Welcomes the report of the Global Environment Facility to the Conference of the 
Parties at its twenty -seventh session and its addendum,1 including the response of the Global 
Environment Facility to the guidance received from the Conference of the Parties;  
2. Also welcome s the work undertaken by the Global Environment Facility during the 
reporting period 1 July 2021 to 30 June 2022, including:  
(a) The approval of 86 climate change projects and programmes under the Global 
Environment Facility Trust Fund, the Least Developed Cou ntries Fund and the Special 
Climate Change Fund;  
(b) The continued integration of climate change priorities into its other focal areas 
and integrated programmes and the expected avoidance or sequestration of 76.6 million 
tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent ac hieved through such integration;  
(c) The continued implementation of the long-term vision  on complementarity, 
coherence  and collaboration  between the Green Climate Fund and the Global Environment 
Facility;2 
(d) The creation of a competitive window in the System for Transparent Allocation 
of Resources amounting to 8 per cent of the System for Transparent Allocation of Resources 
allocation for the five top recipient countries under this system;  
3. Further welcomes  the conclusion of the eighth replenishment of the Glob al 
Environment Facility amounting to USD  5.3 billion, while noting that overall resources 
available for programming for the climate change focal area in the eighth replenishment 
increased by 6 per cent compared with the resources available in the seventh r eplenishment;  
4. Welcomes  the integrated programming approach of the Global Environment Facility 
across all five of its focal areas,3 which should help it to maximize the global environmental 
benefits of its support;  
5. Notes  the adoption of the private sector engagement strategy4 by the Global 
Environment Facility Council at its 59th meeting and the renewed non -grant instrument under 
the eighth replenishment of the Global Environment Facility and encourages  the Global 
Environment Facility to enhance its effort s to mobilize and engage with the private sector 
during the eighth replenishment period;  
6. Welcomes  the increased allocation of resources to small island developing States and 
the least developed countries in the eighth replenishment of the Global Environmen t Facility 
under the System for Transparent Allocation of Resources, including through harmonizing 
the small island developing State floors with the least developed country floors and raising 
these floors to USD  8 million;  
7. Appreciates  the efforts of the Global Environment Facility secretariat to scale up 
adaptation finance for small island developing States through the designation of a dedicated 
window under the Special Climate Change Fund for supporting the adaptation needs of small 
island developing States and encourages  continued and increased voluntary contributions of 
 
 1 FCCC/CP/2022/5 and Add.1.  
 2 Global Environment Facility Council document GEF/C.60/08.  
 3 The five focal areas under the work programme of the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund are 
biodiversity, chemicals and waste, climate change, international waters and land degradation.  
 4 Global Environment Facility Council document GEF/C.59/07/Rev.01 . FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
28  financial resources to the Least Developed Countries Fund and the Special Climate Change 
Fund in line with the Global Environment Facility’s 2022 –2026 programming str ategy on 
adaptation to climate change for the Least Developed Countries Fund and the Special Climate 
Change Fund;5 
8. Also encourages  the Global Environment Facility, in administering the Least 
Developed Countries Fund and the Special Climate Change Fund, to support developing 
country Parties in implementing national adaptation plans and other national adaptation 
planning processes and urges  developed country Parties to increase their voluntary 
contributions to the Least Developed Countries Fund and the Special Climate Change Fund;  
9. Encourages  the Global Environment Facility to work towards implementing its 
programming strategy on adaptat ion to climate change for the Least Developed Countries 
Fund and the Special Climate Change Fund during the eighth replenishment of the Global 
Environment Facility so as to effectively assist developing countries;  
10. Requests  the Global Environment Facility to continue to foster greater diversity of its 
implementing agencies, building on the comparative advantages of the various agencies and 
taking into account recipient country priorities;  
11. Calls on  the Global Environment Facility to enhance its support, with in its mandate, 
for implementing the enhanced Lima work programme on gender and its gender action plan;6 
12. Encourages  the Global Environment Facility secretariat to recommend further 
streamlining measures aimed at reducing transaction costs for all implemen ting agencies, 
reducing administrative costs and facilitating increased access by multilateral development 
banks;  
13. Requests  the Global Environment Facility to report on its efforts to deliver the 
increased per -project funding ceiling under its Small Grant s Programme agreed on during 
the eighth replenishment process;  
14. Welcomes  the Global Environment Facility’s commitment to maintain an ambitious 
level of direct and indirect climate co -benefits in its eighth replenishment;  
15. Requests  the Global Environment Fa cility to further explore ways to provide support 
to developing country Parties for assessing their needs and priorities in a country -driven 
manner, including technology and capacity -building needs, and for translating climate 
finance needs into action;  
16. Urges the further enhancement of the support provided by the Global Environment 
Facility  for activities related to technology training, funding for technology development and 
transfer and capacity -building;  
17. Encourages  the continuing engagement of the Global  Environment Facility with the 
Green Climate Fund, including in implementing the Long -term Vision on Complementarity, 
Coherence and Collaboration between the Green Climate Fund and the Global Environment 
Facility;7  
18. Requests  the Global Environment Facility, as appropriate, to ensure that its policies 
and procedures related to the consideration and review of funding proposals are duly 
followed in an efficient manner;  
19. Invites  Parties to submit their views  and recommendations  on elements of guidance 
for the Global Environment Facility via the submission portal8 no later than 10 weeks prior 
to the twenty -eighth session of the Conference of the Parties (November –December 2023);  
20. Requests  the Standing Committee on Finance to take in to consideration the 
submissions referred to in paragraph 19 above when preparing its draft guidance for the 
Global Environment Facility for consideration by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -
 
 5 Global Environment Facility Council document GEF/LDCF.SCCF/SM.03/01 . 
 6 Decision 3/CP.25.  
 7 Global Environment Facility Council document GEF/C.60/08.  
 8 https://www4.unf ccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx . FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
 29 eighth session and the Conference of the Parties servi ng as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Paris Agreement at its fifth session (November –December 2023);  
21. Also requests  the Global Environment Facility to include in its annual report to the 
Conference of the Parties information on the steps it has taken to i mplement the guidance 
provided in this decision;  
22. Takes note  of decision 17/CMA.4 and decides  to transmit to the Global Environment 
Facility the guidance from the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties 
to the Paris Agreement contain ed in paragraphs 2 –10 of that decision.9 
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
 
 
 9 In accordance with decision 1/CP.21, para. 61.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
30    Decision 18/CP.27  
  Enhancing climate technology development  and transfer  
through the Technology Mechanism  
The Conference of the Parties ,  
Recalling  decisions 2/CP.17, 1/CP.21, 15/CP.22, 21/CP.22, 15/CP.23, 12/CP.24, 
13/CP.24, 14/CP.25 and 9/CP.26 , 
1. Notes the joint annual report of the  Technology Executive Committee and the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network for 20221 and their progress in facilitating effective 
implementation of the Technology Mechanism;  
2. Welcomes  the collaboration of the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network in their joint work in 20222 and invites  them to continue 
undertaking joint work and enhance their exchange of systematic feedback with a view to  
ensuri ng coherence and synergy and effective implementation of the Technology 
Mechanism;  
3. Welcomes  with appreciation  the first joint work programme of the Technology 
Mechanism, for 2023 –2027,3 developed to strengthen the Technology Mechanism to support 
the trans formational changes needed to achieve the goals of the Convention;  
4. Welcomes the key joint activities and common areas of work outlined in the joint work 
programme: technology road maps, digitalization, national systems of innovation, water –
energy –food syst ems, energy systems, buildings and infrastructure, business and industry, 
and technology needs assessment;  
5. Invites the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Centre and 
Network to jointly pursue collaborative partnerships and strategic engage ment  with bodies , 
processes and initiatives under and outside the Convention, including in the private sector, 
with a view to facilitating the  implementation of all activities under the joint work 
programme;  
6. Also invites  the Technology Executive Commi ttee and the Climate Technology Centre 
and Network to strengthen their systematic engagement with national designated entities, 
including through regional forums for national designated entities, to increase the reach and 
impact of the work of the Technolo gy Mechanism on policies and practices on the ground;  
7. Further invites Parties, the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network to explore ways to provide enhanced technical and logistical 
support to national designated enti ties, including through collaboration with the public and 
private sector;  
8. Commends the continued efforts of the Technology Executive Committee and the 
Climate Technology Centre and Network in mainstreaming gender considerations in their 
work and requests the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Centre 
and Network to swiftly finalize the two global rosters of female experts in the area of climate 
technology and of female and male experts on gender and climate change;  
9. Welcomes the collabo ration of the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network with the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism and  
strongly encourages the two bodies  to continue such collaboration with a view t o enhancing 
the capacity of  developing countries to prepare project proposals and facilitating their access 
to available funding for technology development and transfer ; 
 
 1 FCCC/SB/202 2/4.  
 2 See the table  on joint activities of the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology 
Centre and Network  for 2022 –2023 , available at https://unfccc.int/ttclear/tec .  
 3 Available at https://unfccc.int/ttclear/tec/documents.html .  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
 31 10. Acknowledges  the work on incubators and accelerators planned by the Technology 
Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Centre and Network under the joint work 
programme and invites  the two bodies to continue to work with developing country Parties, 
in particula r the least developed country Parties and small island developing States, to 
promote the use of incubators and accelerators and to support the development of funding 
proposals that incorporate their use  for submission to the operating entities of the Finan cial 
Mechanism;  
11. Requests  the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Centre 
and Network to continue to enhance their efforts to monitor and evaluate  the impacts of their 
work, including identifying new ways to invite  feedback from nationa l designated entities on 
the impact of the work of the Technology Mechanism such as through more  practical and 
effective surveys;  
12. Expresses its appreciation  for the voluntary financial contributions provided by 
Parties for supporting the work of the Techno logy Executive Committee and the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network to date and encourages  the provision of enhanced support 
for the work of the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Centre 
and Network through financial and other res ources;  
13. Notes  that the joint annual report referred to in paragraph 1 above does not contain 
information on how the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology 
Centre and Network responded to mandates of Parties in the implementation of their  work 
and requests  the two bodies to include such information in their joint annual reports;  
14. Encourages  the secretariats supporting the Technology Executive Committee and the 
Climate Technology Centre and Network to collaborate closely, including on resour ce 
mobilization, to ensure effective implementation of the joint work programme;  
I. Activities and performance of the Technology Executive 
Committee in 2022  
15. Invites Parties and relevant stakeholders to consider the relevant key messages and 
the implementation  of recommendations of the Technology Executive Committee for 2022 
and also invites  the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Centre 
and Network to consider the recommendations addressed directly to them;  
16. Encourages the Technology Execu tive Committee to continue its efforts to enhance 
its visibility and outreach to Parties, including through their respective national designated 
entities, UNFCCC constituted bodies and other relevant stakeholders, and maximize the 
uptake of its recommendat ions;  
17. Notes  with concern  that gender balance in the composition of the Technology 
Executive Committee has not yet been achieved and encourages  Parties to nominate more 
female candidates for the Technology Executive Committee towards achieving gender 
balanc e in its composition;  
18. Recalls decision 9/CP.26, paragraph 15, and decides  that the Technology Executive 
Committee shall comprise, in addition to its current membership, one additional member 
from Parties included in Annex I to the Convention and one additi onal member from Parties 
not included in the Annex I to the Convention that are not represented by the regions referred 
to in paragraph 1(b) of appendix IV to decision 1/CP.16;  
II. Activities and performance of the Climate Technology Centre 
and Network in 2022  
19. Notes  with appreciation  the actions taken in response to the second independent 
review of the Climate Technology  Centre and Network4 and encourages  the Climate 
 
 4 Pursuant to decision 11/CP.2 6.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
32  Technology Centre and Network to continue implementing the recommendations therein and 
report on their implementation in its next annual report;  
20. Also e ncourages the Climate Technology Centre and Network to continue providing 
support to developing countries , on request, including those that have not yet received 
support for technical assistance from the Climate Technology Centre and Network, including 
by mobilizing private sector entities and Network members, with a view to building and 
strengthening the cap acity of developing countries to assess their technology needs, develop 
and implement technology action plans, scale up technical assistance and access available 
funding for implementation of mitigation and adaptation actions;  
21. Welcomes the launch of the Pa rtnership and Liaison Office in Songdo, Republic of 
Korea, and requests  the Climate Technology Centre and Network to include information on 
its experience in and lessons learned from the operation of its Partnership and Liaison Office 
in Songdo in its annu al reports;  
22. Notes with concern  that securing funding for implementing the mandates of the 
Technology Mechanism remains an important challenge and encourages the provision of 
enhanced support to the Technology Mechanism;  
23. Appreciates the efforts of the Clima te Technology Centre and Network to mobilize a 
diverse range of resources, including pro bono and in -kind contributions, and requests  the 
Climate Technology Centre and Network to finalize and implement a resource mobilization 
and partnership strategy and t o include information thereon in its annual reports;  
24. Welcomes  with appreciation the reaccreditation of the United Nations Environment 
Programme and the upgrade to the medium -sized project budget category, by the Green 
Climate Fund Board, for the submission  of funding proposals to the  Green Climate  Fund;  
25. Welcomes  the ongoing work by the Climate Technology Centre and Network on the 
development of two medium -sized projects  and encourages  the Climate Technology Centre 
and Network to consider regional balance in  the development of future projects and to report 
on the use of the Project Preparation Facility under the Green Climate Fund in its annual 
reports .  
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2022  
 FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
 33   Decision 19/CP.27  
  Annual technical progress report of the Paris Committee on 
Capacity -building for 2022  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  decisions  2/CP.17 , 1/CP.21, 2/CP.22, 16/CP.22, 16/CP.23, 15/CP.24, 
8/CP.25 and 12/CP.26,  
1. Welcomes the annual technical progress report of the Paris Committee on Capacity -
building for 20221 and takes note  of the recommendations therein;2 
2. Invites Parties, as appropriate, the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism, the 
constituted bodies under the Convention, United Nations organizations, observers and other 
stakeholders to consider the recommendations referred to in paragraph 1 above and to take 
any necessary action, as appropriate and in accordance with their mandates;  
3. Acknowledges  the progress of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building in delivering 
on its mandate to address gaps and needs, both current and emerging, in implementing 
capaci ty-building in developing country Parties and further enhancing capacity -building 
efforts, including with regard to coherence and coordination of capacity -building activities 
under the Convention;  
4. Also acknowledges  the progress of the Paris Committee on Ca pacity -building in 
implementing its workplan  for 2021 –20243 on the basis of the priority areas and activities set 
out in the annex to decision 9/CP.25;  
5. Welcomes the new monitoring and evaluation framework of the Paris Committee on 
Capacity -building, as we ll as the findings from the monitoring and evaluation of the outputs, 
outcomes, and impact and effectiveness of its workplan activities between September 2021 
and July 2022;4 
6. Also welcomes  the work of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building in relation t o 
enhancing coherence and coordination of capacity -building activities under the Convention, 
including its collaboration with constituted bodies and other stakeholders in this regard;  
7. Further welcomes  the continued collaboration of the Paris Committee on C apacity -
building with Parties and non -Party stakeholders on capacity -building for climate action, as 
well as on addressing cross -cutting issues, including human rights, gender responsiveness, 
youth, Action for Climate Empowerment and indigenous peoples’ kn owledge, such as 
through the PCCB Network, the informal coordination group for capacity -building under the 
Convention and the Paris Agreement, the Durban Forum on capacity -building, the Capacity -
building Hub and social media outreach;  
8. Takes note of the 202 3 focus area of the  Paris Committee on Capacity -building of 
capacity -building support for adaptation, with a focus on addressing gaps and needs related 
to formulating and implementing national adaptation plans;5 
9. Notes that capacity gaps and needs still exist in developing countries pertaining to the 
implementation of the Convention;  
 
 1 FCCC/SBI/2022/14.  
 2 FCCC/SBI/2022/14, chap. III. 
 3 FCCC/SBI/2020/13, annex I.  
 4  FCCC/SBI/2022/14, annex I.  
 5 See document FCCC/SBI/2022/14, para. 14. FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
34  10. Invites  Parties and relevant institutions, as appropriate, to provide support and 
resources to the Paris Committee on Capacity -building for  implementing its workplan for 
2021 –2024 in the light of the aim of the Committee established in decision 1/CP.21.  
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2022  
 FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
 35   Decision 20/CP.27  
  Report of the forum on the impact of the implementation of 
response measures  
The Conference of the Parties and the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Partie s to the Kyoto Protocol , 
Recalling  decisions 7/CP.24, 3/CMP.14, 7/CMA.1, 4/CP.25, 4/CMP.15, 19/CP.26 
and 7/CMP.16,  
1. Welcome  the Katowice Committee of Experts on the Impacts of the Implementation 
of Response Measures annual reports for 20191 and 2021 –2022;2  
2. Take note of the conclusion of consideration of the Katowice Committee on Impacts 
annual reports for 2019 and 2021 –2022 by the forum on the impact of the implementation of 
response measures;  
3. Adopt  the recommendations forwarded by the for um contained in sections I –VI 
below, pertaining to:  
(a) Lessons learned and best practices from analysis and assessment of positive 
and negative impacts of the implementation of response measures by Parties;  
(b) Activities 2, 3, 4, 5 and 11 respectively of the wor kplan of the forum and its 
Katowice Committee on Impacts;3 
4. Invite  Parties, observer organizations and stakeholders to implement the 
recommendations in sections I –VI below, as applicable;  
5. Request the forum and its Katowice Committee on Impacts and the secr etariat to 
implement the recommendations in sections I –VI below, as applicable;  
6. Appreciate the progress of the Katowice Committee on Impacts in supporting the 
work of the forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures;  
7. Welcome  the informal notes prepared by the Chairs of the Subsidiary Body for 
Scientific and Technological Advice and the Subsidiary Body for  Implementation for the 
workshops held in conjunction with the fifty -sixth sessions of the subsidiary bodies on 
workplan activities 3, 4,  9 and 11;  
8. Appreciate  the technical session on implementing activities 5 and 11 of the workplan 
and express  their gratitude  to the experts contributing to the work of the forum and its 
Katowice Committee on Impacts;  
9. Also express  their gratitude  to the Gove rnment of Antigua and Barbuda, the 
Government of Senegal, the International Labour Organization and the United Nations 
Development Programme for their in -kind, financial, administrative and substantive support 
that contributed to the success of the regiona l workshops held from  20 to 22 April 2022 in 
St. John’s, Antigua and Barbuda, and from  21 to 23 September 2022 in Saly, Senegal, on 
activity  3 of the workplan;  
10. Note  that the midterm review of the workplan of the forum could not be concluded at 
these sessio ns, take note  of the informal note on the midterm review4 and request  the forum 
to continue the midterm review at the fifty -eighth sessions of the subsidiary bodies 
(June  2023);  
 
 1 Document KCI/2019/2/4 . 
 2 Document FCCC/SB/2022/6 . 
 3 Contained in annex II to decisions 4/CP.25, 4/CMP.15 and 4/CMA.2 . 
 4 Available at https://unfccc.int/documents/624251 . The content of the note does not represent 
consensus among Parties . FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
36  11. Also request  the secretariat to organize a regional workshop on activity 3 of  the 
workplan by the fifty -ninth sessions of the subsidiary bodies (November –December 2023), 
in collaboration with relevant organizations and stakeholders, to address regional needs and 
acknowledge the work that has been carried out by the Katowice Committ ee on Impacts and 
note that further regional workshops on activity 3 can be decided on by the forum;  
12. Invite  Parties and observers to submit via the submission portal ,5 by April 2023 , their 
views and guiding questions for the review of the functions, work programme and modalities 
of the forum6 and request  the secretariat to prepare the summary of the submissions as a basis 
of the discussion of the review, which is to start at the fift y-eighth and conclude at the fifty -
ninth sessions of the subsidiary bodies;  
13. Take note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 3, 11  and 12 above;  
14. Request  that the actions of th e secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources;  
I. Lessons learned and best practices from analysis and 
assessment of positive and negative impacts of the 
implementation of response measures by Parties  
15. Encourage  Parties to consider:  
(a) Developing methodologies and tools, including modelling tools, for the 
assessment and analysis of the impacts of the implementation of response measures in 
consultation with technical experts, practitioners and other relevant stakeholders, as 
appropriate;  
(b) Building capacity for development and deployment of methodologies and 
tools, in particular of developing country Parties, to inform and support national climate 
change mitigation and sustainable development priorities  and policies;  
(c) Developing more national, regional and sector -specific case studies involving 
the assessment and analysis of the impacts of the implementation of response measures to 
enable an exchange of experience among Parties;  
II. Activity 27 of the workpl an 
16. Encourage  Parties to invest in the early planning of just transition policies that are 
inclusive and based on stakeholder engagement;  
17. Also encourage countries at very low levels of economic development to prioritize 
getting the fundamentals right prior to undertaking economic diversification, noting that as 
countries develop, multiple diversification paths become available;  
18. Request  the secretariat, while noting that national circumstances differ, to conduct 
peer-to-peer learning, where possible, to facil itate planning and implementation of effective 
policies;  
 
 5 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx . 
 6 Activity e of the workplan as c ontained in annex II to decisions 4/CP.25, 4/CMP.15 and 4/CMA.2 . 
 7 Identify country -driven strategies and best practices on just transition of the workforce and creation of 
decent work and quality jobs and on economic diversification  and transformation focusing on 
challenges and opportunities from the implementation of low greenho use gas emission policies and 
strategies towards the achievement of sustainable development . FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
 37 III. Activity 38 of the workplan  
19. Encourage  Parties to:  
(a) Consider the availability of country -level expertise, training, support and 
consultancy services when selecting a tool or methodology for assessing the impacts of the 
implementation of response measures;  
(b) Invest in data collection in line with national and international standards (for 
example, the United Nations System of National Accounts or the System of Environmental -
Economic Accounting);  
(c) Establish capacity -building partnerships and networks for increasing the 
representation of developing countries in the use and development of impact assessment tools 
and methods for assessing the impacts of the implementation of response measures;  
(d) Consider both qual itative and quantitative methods for assessing the impact of 
the implementation of response measures;  
20. Request  the forum and its Katowice Committee on Impacts to:  
(a) Facilitate the enhancement of the capacity of Parties, in particular developing 
country Partie s, to develop and use impact assessment methodologies and tools for 
conducting their own assessments and analyses of the impacts of response measures, 
including on decent work and quality jobs, and economic, social, environmental, domestic, 
cross -border, p ositive and negative impacts; this includes facilitating the development of case 
studies as appropriate and the organization of targeted regional hands -on training workshops;  
(b) Develop and maintain a web -based user interface for selecting tools and 
methodolo gies and promote its use among Parties and stakeholders, as appropriate; a user 
manual for the interface could also be developed;  
21. Also request  the secretariat to regularly update the existing database of tools and 
methodologies suitable for assessing the i mpacts of the implementation of response 
measures, as needed and as appropriate;  
IV. Activity 49 of the workplan  
22. Encourage  Parties to:  
(a) Foster international cooperation to identify and share best practices and 
experience of countries that have successfully div ersified their economies;  
(b) Identify barriers, domestic and non -domestic alike, as well as ways in which 
the international community could facilitate the sustainable economic development of all 
Parties;  
23. Request  prioritization of the developing and sharing of case studies by Parties a nd 
experts, in particular on developing country Parties, on both just transition and economic 
diversification and transformation in order to understand the opportunities and challenges 
faced in their planning and implementation;  
24. Also r equest  facilitation o f the development of robust assessment tools and 
methodologies that can capture a range of multidimensional impacts of the implementation 
of response measures;  
 
 8 Facilitate the development, enhancement, customization and use of tools and methodologies for 
modelling and assessing the impacts of the implementation of respo nse measures, including 
identifying and reviewing existing tools and approaches in data -poor environments, in consultation 
with technical experts, practitioners and other relevant stakeholders . 
 9 Enhance the capacity and understanding of Parties, through collaboration and input from 
stakeholders, on the assessment and analysis of the impacts of the implementation of response 
measures to facilitate the undertaking of economic diversification and transformation and just 
transition . FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
38  25. Encourage  relevant agencies, financial institutions and UNFCCC constituted bodies 
to enhance sup port for addressing issues related to the assessment and analysis of the impacts 
of the implementation of mitigation actions, policies and programmes, including nationally 
determined contributions and long -term low -emission development strategies, with a v iew to 
addressing the adverse impacts and maximizing opportunities;  
26. Also encourage  relevant agencies to enhance and develop their existing training 
frameworks and modules on assessment and analysis so that they can be used for country -
level training progra mmes and for developing impact assessment tools and methods;  
V. Activity 510 of the workplan  
27. Encourage Parties to:  
(a) Promote partnerships in research and development, including identifying risks 
and opportunities, and peer -to-peer learning involving relevant na tional and international 
stakeholders from public and private sectors, as well as civil society, local communities and 
indigenous peoples, youth, workers and research and academia in new industries and 
businesses;  
(b) Promote inter - and intracountry exchange o f experience, best practices, 
research outcomes and learning on new industries and businesses, including by identifying 
relevant skills, making best use of existing knowledge and capabilities, and developing new 
skills through targeted training, retooling,  retraining and reskilling;  
(c) Explore new technologies, carbon capture, utilization and storage, hydrogen 
and artificial intelligence tools to maximize the positive and minimize the negative impacts 
of the implementation of response measures;  
(d) Develop regulat ory frameworks, as appropriate, for carbon capture, transport, 
utilization and storage, and hydrogen production, infrastructure and transport at the national, 
regional or global level to explore the possibility of standardizing the design and application, 
as appropriate, while ensuring high safety standards;  
(e) Remove barriers and strengthen policy support for carbon capture, utilization 
and storage to drive innovation and deployment to the scale -up, ensuring specific policy 
incentives critical to expanding th e market frontier worldwide;  
(f) Collaborate on methodologies for calculating life cycle greenhouse gas 
emissions from hydrogen production, as needed, and developing comprehensive and science -
based terminology and relevant standards for hydrogen deployment to promote widespread 
adoption of the hydrogen economy, while also removing barriers;  
28. Also encourage  Parties, observer organizations and other relevant stakeholders to 
engage the private sector, including small and medium -sized enterprises, to facilitate the 
identification and exchange of experience and best practices to promote the creation of decent 
work and quality jobs in new industries and businesses;  
29. Further encourage  Parties and stakeholders to foster collaboration, undertake joint 
pilot activities and programmes, and share knowledge, lessons learned and best practices, 
including from governments, business communities, research and academia, artificial 
intelligence experts and civil society groups;  
30. Encourage  relevant stakeholders to undertake economic an d financial analyses, 
including assessment of the diversification of investments and business models, for 
investment in the hydrogen economy, and to undertake scientific assessments to understand 
the national resource endowment potential for sustainable hy drogen production;  
 
 10 Build awareness and und erstanding of Parties and other stakeholders to assess the economic impacts 
of potential new industries and businesses resulting from the implementation of response measures 
with a view to maximizing the positive and minimizing the negative impacts of the implementation of 
response measures . FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
 39 VI. Activity 1111 of the workplan  
31. Encourage  Parties to undertake more in -depth analysis on the impacts of response 
measures, quantifying the co -benefits for the response measures, categorizing where the 
co-benefits come from and who the bene ficiaries of the co -benefits are, with a view to 
informing integrated climate actions;  
32. Request  the Katowice Committee on Impacts to enhance the capacity of Parties, in 
particular developing country Parties, to develop and use country -specific tools and 
methodologies for assessing the environmental, social and economic co -benefits of climate 
change policies and actions.  
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
 
 
 
 11 Facilitate, exchange and share experiences and best practices in the assessment of the environmental, 
social and economic co -benefits of climate change policies and actions informed by the best available 
science, including the use of existing tools and methodologies .  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
40    Decision 2 1/CP.27  
  Second periodic review of the long-term global goal under the 
Convention and of overall progress towards achieving it  
The Conference of the Parties ,  
Recalling Articles 2 –3 of the Convention,  
Also recalling that, pursuant to decision 1/CP.16, paragraph 138, the second periodic 
review of the long -term global goal under the Convention and of overall progress towards 
achieving it should be conducted in the light of the ultimate objective of the Convention and 
in accordance with the relevant principles and provisions of the Convention , 
Further recalling decisions 1/CP.16, paragraphs 138 –139, 1/CP.17, paragraph 6 , 
2/CP.17, paragraphs 157 –167, 1/CP.18, paragraphs 79 –91, 10/CP.21 , 18/CP.23 , 5/CP.25 and  
1/CP.26,  
1. Welcomes  the work under  the structured expert dialogue on the second periodic 
review of the long -term global goal under the Convention and of overall progress towards 
achieving it (hereinafter  referred to as the structured expert dialogue) , which contributed to 
completing the phases of the second periodic review reflected in decision 2/CP.17, paragraph 
164, and takes note  of the synthesis report thereon,1 including the 10 key messages 
highlighted therein, and the summary reports on the meetings of the dialogu e;2 
2. Expresses its appreciation and gratitude  to those involved in the structured expert 
dialogue, in particular its co -facilitators;  
3. Also expresses its appreciation and gratitude  for all the inputs  provided to the second 
periodic review , including those m ade to  the structured expert dialogue by the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the secretariat, UNFCCC constituted bodies , 
and other United Nations bodies and organizations and the report of the 2020 round table on 
pre-2020 implementation and ambi tion; 
4. Notes that work under the structured expert dialogue has been completed , as described 
in decision 1/CP.18, paragraphs 86 –89, and that the dialogue covered  the two themes of the 
second periodic review, as set out in decision 5/CP.25, paragraph 4 (a–b); 
5. Reaffirms the long -term global goal of holding the increase in global average 
temperature to well below 2 °C above pre -industrial levels and pursuing efforts to limit the 
temperature increase to 1.5 °C above pre -industrial levels  (hereina fter referred to as the long -
term global goal) , recognizing that this would significantly reduce the risks and impacts of 
climate change, as referred to in decision 10/CP.21, paragraph 4, and notes  that it is assessed 
over a period of decades;   
6. Expresses a larm and utmost concern that human activities have caused a global 
average temperature increase of around 1.1  °C above pre -industrial levels to date and that 
impacts are already being felt in every region and will escalate with every increment of global 
warming;  
7. Recalls that the impacts of climate change will be much lower at the temperature 
increase of 1.5 °C compared with 2 °C3 and acknowledges  that limiting the global average 
temperature increase to 1.5 °C above pre -industrial levels with no or limited overshoot would 
avoid increasingly severe climate change impacts, stressing that the severity of impacts will 
be reduced with every increment of global warming avoided;   
8. Reaffirms  that limiting  global warming to 1.5 °C requires rapid, deep and sustained 
reductions in global greenhouse gas emissions, including reducing global carbon dioxide 
 
 1 FCCC/SB/2022/3.  
 2 Available at https://unfccc.int/topics/science/workstreams/periodic -review/SED . 
 3 Decision 1/CP.26, para. 16.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
 41 emissions by 45 per cent by 2030 relative to the 2010 level and to net zero around mid -
century as well as deep reductions in other greenhouse gas emissions;4  
9. Notes that information and knowledge have improved significantly since the first 
periodic review (2013 –2015), while there continue to be important information and 
knowledge gaps in relation to the areas covered within the scope of the second periodic 
review set out in decision 5/CP.25, paragraph 4, and  encourages the scientific community to 
address these gaps;  
10. Notes that the Synthesis Report of the Sixth Assessment Report of the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is expected to be completed by March 2023 and 
invites  the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change to present the findings therein at the 
fifty-eighth session of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice (June 
2023);  
11. Notes that it is still possible to achieve the long -term global go al with immediate, 
rapid, deep and sustained reductions in overall aggregated global greenhouse gas emissions,  
while recognizing that there are challenges relating to mitigation, adaptation, and means of 
implementation and support;  
12. Also notes  that current policies and measures are insufficient for achieving the long -
term global goal and the window of opportunity for achieving the goal is closing;  
13. Further notes that valuable information was provided during the structured expert 
dialogue on how Parties can ef fect transformational change across key systems and sectors;  
14. Underscores  the need to pursue anticipatory, incremental and transformative 
adaptation and address the factors underlying increasing vulnerability and risks, including 
lack of capacity to respond  to climate change, and that most adaptation to date has been 
incremental, with little evidence of transformative adaptation, and tracking progress of 
adaptation planning remains difficult;  
15. Notes  that, despite overall progress on mitigation , adaptation and  means of 
implementation and support, Parties are  not collectively  on track  to achiev e the long-term 
global goal and that the pre-2020 pledges of some Parties and their subsequent  
implementation have been insufficient;  
16. Also notes  that there are still signi ficant gaps between collectively pledged emission 
reductions and the reductions required to achieve the long -term global goal, as well as gaps 
in support for adaptation and means of implementation  for developing country Parties , 
especially those that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change, as 
provided for in the Convention;  
17. Acknowledges that, in order to shift to and remain on a pathway to achieving the long -
term global goal, Parties must enhance their efforts under the Co nvention and the Paris 
Agreement to significantly reduce their aggregated emissions prior to 2030, while recognizing 
the financial, technological, economic, capacity -building and institutional challenges and needs 
and special circumstances of developing co untry Parties, especially those that are particularly 
vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change, as provided for in the Convention;  
18. Notes that, although some progress has already been made by the UNFCCC, its 
constituted bodies and other entities in scaling up financial, technological and capacity -
building support, these enablers  for climate action are not yet aligned with the urgency of a 
rapid, just and equitable low -emission and climate -resilient transition and significant gaps 
still exist in te rms of both the scale and the speed of such progress;  
19. Recognizes that climate finance has increased since the first periodic review but is  still 
inadequate to address the needs and priorities, reiterates that developed country Parties 
provide enhanced supp ort, including through financial resources, technology transfer and 
capacity -building, to assist developing country Parties with respect to both mitigation and 
adaptation, in continuation of their existing obligations under the Convention, and 
encourages  other Parties to provide or continue to provide such support voluntarily;  
 
 4 Decision 1/CP.26, para. 17.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
42  20. Notes  that Parties have different responsibilities, national circumstances and 
capabilities to contribute to achieving the long -term global goal, while the impacts and risks 
associated with warming are unevenly distributed, and in this regard also notes  the nee d for 
enhanced efforts towards achieving the long -term global goal, taking into account ambition, 
equity, just transition and the best available science;  
21. Further notes that the outputs of the structured expert dialogue could serve as input 
to the first glo bal stocktake, pursuant to decision 19/CMA.1, paragraph 37(c), as well as other 
relevant processes under the Convention and the Paris Agreement;  
22. Decides to consider the continuation of periodic reviews at its twenty -ninth session 
(November 2024) pursuant to decision 5/CP.25, paragraph 8;  
23. Notes that the second periodic review fulfilled its mandate as contained in decisions 
1/CP.16, 1/CP.17, 2/CP.17, 1/CP.18 and 5/CP.25.  
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
 FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
 43   Decision 2 2/CP.27  
  Implementation of the Global Climate Observing System  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  Article 4, paragraph 1(g –h), and Article 5 of the Convention,  
Also recalling decisions 8/CP.3, 14/CP.4, 5/CP.5, 11/CP.9, 5/CP.10, 9/CP.15  and 
19/CP.22,  
Further recalling  Article 7 of the Paris Agreement,  
Noting the important role of the Global Climate Obs erving System in meeting the 
need for climate observation and climate services under the Convention,  
Also n oting that reporting and greenhouse gas inventory guidelines are as adopted 
under the Convention and the Paris Agreement,  
Recognizing the importance of and continued need for capacity -building to support 
systematic observation,  
1. Recognizes  the vital importance of robust Earth observation systems and related 
long-term data records for enhanced understanding of the global climate system and its 
changes, a nd for adaptation and mitigation action;  
2. Welcomes  the 2022 Global Climate Observing System Implementation Plan1 and the 
2022 Global Climate Observing System essential climate variables requirements2 and 
encourages  Parties and relevant organizations, as a ppropriate, to work towards the 
implementation of the 2022 Global Climate Observing System Implementation Plan;  
3. Emphasizes  the need to address systematic observation gaps, particularly in 
developing countries and for ocean, mountain, desert and polar regio ns and the cryosphere 
in order to improve understanding of climate change, climate -related risks and tipping points, 
and adaptation limits and to ensure enhanced delivery of climate services and early warning 
systems;  
4. Notes  with concern  the existing gaps in the global climate observing system  and 
recognizes  the need to enhance the coordination of activities by the systematic observation 
community and improve its ability to provide useful and actionable climate information for 
mitigation,  adaptation and early warning systems, as well as information to enable 
understanding of adaptation limits and of attribution of extreme events.  
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2022  
 
 
 1 See World Meteorological Organization . 202 2. The 2022 GCOS Implementation Plan . Geneva: 
World Meteorological Organization . Available at 
https://library.wmo.int/doc_num.php?explnum_id=11317 .  
 2 See World Meteorological Organization . 2022. The 2022 GCOS ECVs Requirements . Geneva: W orld 
Meteorological Organization . Available at https://library.wmo.int/doc_num.php?explnum_id=11318 .  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
44    Decision 23/CP.27  
  Action plan under the Glasgow work programme on Action 
for Climate Empowerment  
The Conference of the Parties and  the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement , 
Recalling  Articles 4 and 6 of the Convention and Article 12 of the Paris Agreement,  
Acknowledging  that climate change is a common concern of humankind, Parties 
should, when taking action to address climate change, respect, promote and consider their 
respective obligations on human rights, the right to health, the rights of indigenous peoples, 
local communities, migrants, children, persons with disabilities and people in vulnerable 
situations and the right to development, as well as gender equality, empowe rment of women 
and intergenerational equity,  
Recalling  decisions 18/CP.26, 17/CMA.1 and 22/CMA.3,  
Also recalling  decisions 1/CP.26 and 1/CMA.3, in which Parties were urged to swiftly 
begin implementing the Glasgow work programme on Action for Climate Em powerment, 
respecting, promoting and considering their respective obligations on human rights, as well 
as gender equality and empowerment of women,  
1. Adopt  the four -year action plan under the Glasgow work programme on Action for 
Climate Empowerment, containe d in the annex, which focuses on immediate action through 
short -term, clear and time -bound activities, guided by the priority areas of the Glasgow work 
programme (policy coherence; coordinated action; tools and support; and monitoring, 
evaluation and repor ting), taking into account the six elements of Action for Climate 
Empowerment1 in a balanced manner;  
2. Recognize  that the six elements of Action for Climate Empowerment and the priority 
areas of the Glasgow work programme are interconnected in nature and ar e equally relevant 
and fundamental to the achievement of and progress in climate action;  
3. Emphasize that the action plan should be implemented in an inclusive, 
intergenerational and gender -responsive manner;  
4. Recall that, under the Glasgow work programme:2 
(a) Parties and relevant non -Party stakeholders were invited to engage in and 
support implementation of the Glasgow work programme while maintaining a country -driven 
approach;  
(b) Multilateral and bilateral institutions and organizations, including the 
operating e ntities of the Financial Mechanism, as appropriate, were invited to provide 
financial support for Action for Climate Empowerment activities;  
(c) Intergovernmental and non -governmental organizations in a position to do so 
were encouraged to provide technical or  financial support for Action for Climate 
Empowerment activities;  
(d) The secretariat was requested to promote partnerships with other 
organizations, the private sector and donors in order to support implementation of the 
Glasgow work programme;  
5. Affirm  that th e mandates referred to in paragraph 4 above also apply in the context of 
the action plan;  
 
 1 Educat ion, training, public awareness, public participation, public access to information and 
international cooperation on climate change.   
 2 Decisions 18/CP.26, paras. 5, 6, 9 and 10; and 22/CMA.3, paras. 5, 6, 9 and 10.   FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
 45 6. Take note  of the annual summary report by the secretariat on progress in implementing 
activities under the Glasgow work programme;3 
7. Request the secretariat to includ e in each annual summary report under the Glasgow 
work programme information on materials, resources and findings as set out in the action 
plan, such as information on progress in implementing activities A.1, A.2, B.1, C.2, C.3 
and D.1; 
8. Invite  Parties and non-Party stakeholders to submit to the secretariat annually for the 
duration of the action plan , via the submission portal ,4 suggestions for structuring the annual 
Dialogues on Action for Climate Empowerment, such as proposed speakers and lists of 
guidin g questions, so as to enhance the Dialogues with a view to meeting the needs of Parties 
and the broader Action for Climate Empowerment community;  
9. Take note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referr ed to in the annex;  
10. Request  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
 
 3 FCCC/SBI/2022/17.  
 4 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx . FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
46  Annex  
Action plan under the Glasgow work programme on Action 
for Climate Empowerment  
1. This action plan under the Glasgow work programme on Action for Climate 
Empowerment (ACE) sets out short -term, clear and time-bound activities in the four priority 
areas of the Glasgow work programme1 (see tables 1 –4)2 aimed at addressing gaps and 
challenges related to implementing the six ACE elements3 and creating opportunities to 
accelerate their implementation.  
2. Parties, the secretariat, UNFCCC constituted bodies and relevant organizations are 
invited to undertake the activities set out in the ACE action plan, as appropriate.  
3. The ACE action plan will be undertaken in such a manner as to advance 
implementation of a ll six ACE elements in a balanced manner.  
  Priority areas  
4. The objectives of the priority areas4 are set out in paragraphs 5 –8 below.  
A. Policy coherence  
5. To strengthen coordination of work under ACE, recognizing that activities related to 
ACE are also carrie d out under workstreams that are part of the UNFCCC process, as well 
as under frameworks and processes of the United Nations system and in multiple sectors and 
strategies at the national level.  
B. Coordinated action  
6. To continue to build long -term, strategic, operational, multilevel, multi -stakeholder, 
intergenerational partnerships that bring together different expertise, resources and 
knowledge to accelerate ACE implementation.  
C. Tools and support  
7. To enhance access to tools and support for building capacity and  raising awareness 
among Parties, national ACE focal points and non -Party stakeholders with regard to ACE.  
D. Monitoring, evaluation and reporting  
8. To strengthen monitoring, evaluation and reporting of the implementation of all six 
ACE elements at all levels, according to Parties’ specific priorities, needs and national 
circumstances.  
 
 
 1 See decision 18/CP.26, annex, chap. III;  and 22/CMA.3, annex, chap. III .  
 2 Abbreviation s used in the table s: COP = Conference of the Parties, SB = sessions of the subsidiary 
bodies.  
 3 See decision 18/CP.26, annex, chap. IV ; and 22/CMA, annex, chap. IV . 
 4 As per decisions 18/CP.26, annex, paras. 6, 9, 11 and 15; and 22/CMA.3, annex, paras. 6, 9, 11 
and 15.  
 FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
 47 
 
Table 1  
Priority area A: policy coherence  
Activity  Responsible entity or entities  Timeline  Deliverables/outputs  Level of 
implementation  
A.1 Strengthening coordination of ACE 
work under the UNFCCC  Secretariat  Ongoing to 
COP 31 
(2026)  Identifying good practices for integrating the six ACE elements 
into the work of the UNFCCC constituted bodies and reporting 
thereon in the annual summary report under the Glasgow work 
programme  International  
Leading: secretariat  
Contributing: UNFCCC 
constituted bodies, including 
the Facilitative Working Group 
of the Local Communities and 
Indigenous Peoples Platform, 
Parties, relevant organizations  SB 62  
(June 2025)  Organizing a joint session with representatives of the UNFCCC 
constituted bodies and all work programmes under the 
UNFCC C at the ACE Dialogue to discuss ways of enhancing 
understanding of the role of children and youth and indigenous 
peoples in accelerating ACE implementation and promoting 
intergenerational knowledge -sharing in the context of their 
work  International  
A.2 Strengthening integration of ACE into 
the development and implementation of 
national climate policies, plans, strategies 
and action  Secretariat  Ongoing to 
COP 31 
(2026)  Identifying good practices for integrating the ACE elements 
into national climate c hange policies, plans, strategies and 
action, including the considerations reflected in the eleventh 
preambular paragraph of the Paris Agreement – which, 
acknowledging that climate change is a common concern of 
humankind, states that Parties should, when t aking action to 
address climate change, respect, promote and consider their 
respective obligations on human rights, the right to health, the 
rights of indigenous peoples, local communities, migrants, 
children, persons with disabilities and people in vulner able 
situations and the right to development, as well as gender 
equality, empowerment of women and intergenerational equity 
– in the context of ACE, and reporting thereon in the annual 
summary report under the Glasgow work programme  International  
 Secretariat  SB 62  
(June 2025)  Holding an interactive workshop at the ACE Dialogue in 2025 
and also at the regional level prior to COP 31 (2026) on 
developing and implementing national climate change policies, 
plans, strategies and action using a clear, in clusive, 
intergenerational and gender -responsive approach  International, 
regional  
 Relevant organizations  Ongoing to 
COP 31 
(2026)  Facilitating voluntary peer -to-peer exchanges that serve to 
provide technical and substantive guidance to national ACE 
focal points for engaging in relevant national processes and 
policies, such as national ACE strategies, according to national 
circumstances  International, 
regional   
 FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
48  
 
Table 2   
Priority area B: coordinated action  
Activity  Responsible entity or entities  Timeline  Deliverables/outputs  Level of 
implementation  
B.1 Enhancing regional cooperation 
through virtual and in -person regional 
dialogues, workshops and consultations, 
prior to the ACE Dialogues, taking 
advantage of existing forums, such as the 
regional collaboration centres and regional 
climate weeks, as appropriate, to enhance 
implementation of the Glasgow work 
programme at the regional level as well as 
local ACE hubs building on local 
initiatives  Leading: relevant 
organizations, Parties  
Contributing: secretariat  Ongoing to 
COP 31 
(2026)  Sharing experience and good practices from virtual and in -
person regional dialogues, workshops and consultations prior to 
the ACE Dialogues, as appropriate  
Presenting the outcomes of regional activities at t he ACE 
Dialogues and reporting thereon in the annual summary report 
under the Glasgow work programme and ACE newsletters  Regional  
B.2 Promoting the development of 
regional and local networks and platforms 
that support ACE activities at the regional, 
national and local level, encouraging the 
involvement of youth, women, academics, 
children, traditional leaders and 
indigenous peoples in developing and 
implementing ACE activities and 
providing capacity -building in this regard  Leading: secretari at 
Contributing: Parties, national 
ACE focal points, relevant 
organizations  Ongoing to 
COP 31 
(2026)  Increased peer -to-peer exchange among national ACE focal 
points about ACE activities carried out at the national level 
through, inter alia, the ACE Dialogu es, the regional climate 
weeks and informal virtual networking meetings organized by 
the secretariat  International, 
regional  
Table 3  
Priority area C: tools and support  
Activity  Responsible entity or entities  Timeline  Deliverables/outputs  Level of 
implementation  
C.1 Building and strengthening the 
capacity and skills of national ACE focal 
points  Leading: secretariat  
Contributing: Parties, national 
ACE focal points, relevant 
organizations  Ongoing to 
COP 31 
(2026)  Providing capacity -building opportunities for national ACE 
focal points, including at the ACE Dialogues and the regional 
climate weeks  International, 
regional  
C.2 Meaningfully including youth in and 
engaging with them on climate action at 
all levels and facilitating the inclusive 
participation of, inter alia, children, Relevant organizations, Parties  Ongoing to 
COP 31 
(2026)  Providing capacity -building opportunities for youth with a 
focus on decision -making and implementing climate action at 
the national and international level according to national 
circumstances  International, 
national   
 FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
 49 
 
Activity  Responsible entity or entities  Timeline  Deliverables/outputs  Level of 
implementation  
women, indigenous peoples and persons 
with disabilities, in climate action, 
according to natio nal circumstances  Leading: secretariat, relevant 
organizations  
Contributing: youth and youth 
organizations  Ongoing to 
COP 31 
(2026)  Providing opportunities for youth to present at ACE Dialogues 
and regional climate weeks to highlight the leadership role that 
youth play in climate action  
Allowing youth to participate in networking sessions and 
capacity -building workshops for national ACE focal points  International, 
regional  
 Leading: secretariat  
Contributing: relevant 
organizations  SB 60 
(June  2024)  Mapping and collating existing guidelines and good practices in 
the annual summary report under the Glasgow work 
programme with respect to child education on and 
empowerment in climate action, with special consideration 
given to gender equality and inclusion of persons with 
disabilities  International  
C.3 Enhancing multilevel action by 
national ACE focal points and non -Party 
stakeholders, including representatives of 
civil society organizations, youth -led and 
youth -inclusive organizations, 
community -based organizations, local 
communities and indigenous peoples  Leading: secretariat  
Providing input: Parties, 
relevant organizations, 
multilateral and bilateral 
financial institutions  Ongoing to 
COP 31 
(2026)  Reporting in the annual summary report under the Glasgow 
work programme on the provision of support, i ncluding 
financial support, for the participation of national ACE focal 
points and non -Party stakeholders, including representatives of 
civil society organizations and community -based organizations, 
in international meetings such as the ACE Dialogues and t he 
sessions of the subsidiary bodies and the Conference of the 
Parties  International  
Leading: secretariat, relevant 
organizations, multilateral and 
bilateral financial institutions  
Contributing: national ACE 
focal points, UNFCCC 
constituted bodies  SB 60 
(June  2024)  Organizing an expert -run session on how to write strong project 
proposals at the ACE Dialogues to support the implementation 
of ACE activities  International  
Table 4  
Priority area D: monitoring, evaluation and reporting  
Activity  Responsible entity or entities  Timeline  Deliverables/outputs  Level of 
implementation  
D.1 Strengthening monitoring, evaluation 
and reporting of the implementation of all 
six ACE elements  Leading: secretariat  
Contributing: relevant 
organizations, research 
community  Ongoing to 
COP 31 
(2026)  Compiling monitoring, evaluation and reporting best prac tices 
and resources and making such information available to Parties 
for use for their reporting on ACE activities on a voluntary 
basis, and reporting thereon in the annual summary report under 
the Glasgow work programme  International   
 FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.2  
50  
 
Activity  Responsible entity or entities  Timeline  Deliverables/outputs  Level of 
implementation  
D.2 Enhancing understanding of what 
constitutes high -quality and effective 
evaluation of ACE activities, according to 
national circumstances  Secretariat, Parties, national 
ACE focal points, relevant 
organizations, research 
community  Ongoing to 
COP 31 
(2026)  Organizing interactive workshops at all levels, including at the 
ACE Dialogue in 2023, with experts, national ACE focal 
points, youth leaders and other stakeholders to discuss ways of 
assessing the effectiveness of ACE implementation  International, 
regional,  
national  
D.3 Supporting the consideration by the 
Subsidiary Body for Implementation of 
the annual summary report to be prepared 
by the secretariat on progress in 
implementing activities under the 
Glasgow work programme  Secretariat  Ongoing to 
COP 31 
(2026)  Holding information sessions prior to the sessions of the 
Conference of the Parties to present progress in implementing 
activities under the Glasgow work programme as reported in 
the annual summary report  International  
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2022  
      
 
GE.23 -04734(E)  
Conference of the Parties  
  Report of the Conference of the Parties on its twenty -seventh 
session, held in Sharm el -Sheikh from 6  to 20 November 202 2 
  Addendum  
 Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties at its  
twenty -seventh session  
Contents  
  Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties  
 Decision  Page 
  24/CP.27  Intermediate review of the implementation of the gender action plan  ............................   2 
  25/CP.27  Dates and venues of future sessions  ................................ ................................ ................   7 
  26/CP.27  Administrative, financial and institutional matters  ................................ ..........................   9 
  27/CP.27  Administrative, financial and institutional matters  ................................ ..........................   16 
 Resolution   
  1/CP.27  Expression of gratitude to the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt and  
    the people of the city of Sharm el -Sheikh  ................................ ................................ .......  18 
  United Nations  FCCC /CP/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 
  
Distr.: General  
17 March 2023  
 
Original: English  
FCCC/CP/2022/ 10/Add.3  
2    Decision 24/CP.27  
   Intermediate review of the implementation of the gender 
action plan  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  decisions 36/CP.7, 1/CP.16, 23/CP.18, 18/CP.20, 1/CP.21, 21/CP.22, 
3/CP.23, 3/CP.25 and 20/CP.26, the Paris Agreement and the Katowice climate package,  
Acknowledging  the important role of the enhanced Lima work  programme on gender 
and its gender action p lan1 in advancing gender equality and the empowerment of women 
and girls in the UNFCCC process,  
Recognizing that the full, meaningful and equal participation and leadership of women 
in all aspects of the UNFCCC process and in national - and local -level climate policymaking 
and action is vital to achieving long -term climate goals, while noting the importance of 
mainstreaming a gender perspective in respective workstreams of the UNFCCC process,  
Noting with appreciation the contributions received in support of the work undertaken  
since implementation of the enhanced Lima work programme on gender and its gender acti on 
plan commenced,  
1. Notes with appreciation  the efforts of the secretariat to follow an inclusive approach 
to responding to the challenges arising from the coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic through 
frequent communication with Parties and national gender and  climate change focal points 
and the organization of online workshops fulfilling mandated activities;  
2. Recognizes with concern  the unprecedented crisis caused by the  coronavirus disease 
2019  pandemic, the uneven nature of the global response to  the pandemi c and the pandemic’s 
multifaceted effects on all spheres of society, including the deepening of pre -existing 
inequalities, including gender inequality, and resulting vulnerabilities, which negatively 
impacted  the implementation of the gender action plan, w hich has negatively impacted  the 
implementation of effective gender -responsive climate action, and urges  Parties to accelerate 
their efforts to advance implementation of the enhanced Lima work programme on gender 
and its gender action plan;  
3. Notes  the compi lation and synthesis report by the secretariat on good practices for 
integrating gender into the work of the UNFCCC constituted bodies2 and notes with 
appreciation  the work of  the constituted bodies in advancing gender equality and the 
empowerment of wome n and contributing to the implementation of the gender action plan, 
including at the national level;  
4. Notes the synthesis report by the secretariat on dimensions and examples of the 
gender -differentiated impacts of climate change, the role of women as agent s of change and 
opportunities for women3 and encourages  Parties and relevant organizations to strengthen 
the use of sex -disaggregated data and gender analysis in implementing climate policies, 
plans, strategies and action;  
5. Notes with appreciation the informal report by the secretariat on the in -session 
worksho p on the role of national gender and climate change focal points4 and, taking into 
account the evolving and Party -driven  nature  of the work  and role of such focal points, also 
notes with appreciation  the identification of enablers to facilitate the nation al gender and 
climate change focal points  in carrying out their role, according to national circumstances;  
 
 1 Decision 3/CP.25.  
 2  FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.5.  
 3  FCCC/SBI/2022/7.  
 4 Available at https://unfccc.int/documents/47 0342 .  FCCC/CP/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 3 6. Further notes with appreciation the synthesis report by the secretariat on the 
implementation of the activities contained in the gender action plan,  areas for improvement 
and further work to be undertaken;5 
7. Notes the technical paper prepared by the International Labour Organization exploring 
linkages between gender -responsive climate action and just transition for promoting 
inclusive opportunities for  all in a low -emission economy6 and invites  the International 
Labour Organization to consider organizing a workshop or dialogue focused on the same 
topic;  
8. Welcomes  the contributions related to gender of Working Group II7 and Working 
Group III8 to the  Sixth Assessment Report  of the Intergovernmental  Panel on Climate 
Change;  
9. Underscores the need to promote efforts towards gender balance and improve 
inclusivity in the UNFCCC process by:  
(a) Inviting future Presidencies of the Conference of the Parties to nominate 
women as high -level climate champions;  
(b) Inviting Parties to promote greater gender balance in national delegations in 
negotiation meetings under the UNFCCC, including in meetings on gender and climate 
change;  
(c) Inviting the secretariat, relevant pre siding officers and event organizers to 
promote gender -balanced events;  
10. Notes with appreciation the regional focus of the activities undertaken, including 
workshops and other initiatives that facilitate experience -sharing and knowledge exchange, 
in the two years since implementation of the gender action plan began;  
11. Encourages  Parties , the secretariat and relevant organizations to continue conducting 
activities under the gender action plan in a regionally focused manner, as appropriate, 
including by holding events during regional climate weeks and engaging other relevant 
stakeholders;  
12. Also encourages  Parties and relevant public and private entities to strengthen the 
gender responsiveness of climate finance with a view to further building the capacity of 
women  and for implementation work under the gender action plan, and in order to facilitate 
simplified access to climate finance for grass -roots women’s organizations as well as for 
indigenous peoples, especially women, and local communities ; 
13. Emphasizes  the urge ncy of scaled -up support for developing country Parties to 
implement the gender action plan, consistent with relevant provisions of the Convention and 
the Paris Agreement, including in relation to the UNFCCC gender action plan;  
14. Encourages  Parties, the secr etariat and relevant organizations, in implementing the 
gender action plan, to fully engage men and boys as agents and beneficiaries of change and 
as strategic partners and allies in achieving gender equality and the empowerment of all 
women and girls in t he context of climate change;  
 
 5 FCCC/SBI/2022/8.  
 6 International Labour Organization. 2022. Just transition: An essential p athway to achieving gender 
equality and social justice.  Geneva: International Labour Organization. Available at 
https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/ SubmissionsStaging/Documents/202204141910 ---
ILO%20submission%20 -%20Just%20transition%20 -%20An%20essential%20pathway%20to%20ach
ieving%20gender%20equality%20and%20social%20justice.pdf . 
 7   Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. 2022. Climate Change 2022 : Impacts, Adaptation, and 
Vulnerability. Contribution of Working Group II to the Sixth Assessment Report of the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.  H Pörtner, D Roberts, M Tignor, et al. (eds.). 
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Available at https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg2 .  
 8 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. 2022. Climate Change 2022: Mitigation of Climate 
Change. Contribution of Working Group III to the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change . PR Shukla, J Skea, R Slade, et al. (eds.). Cambridge and New York: 
Cambridge University Press. Available at https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg3/ . FCCC/CP/2022/ 10/Add.3  
4  15. Also encourages  Parties to integrate the work of nominated national gender and 
climate change focal points into relevant national policymaking and decision -making 
structures and to consider the suggestions in the informal repo rt referred to in paragraph 5 
above with a view to strengthening their role;  
16. Requests the secretariat to support the attendance of national gender and climate 
change focal points at relevant mandated UNFCCC meetings, upon request and subject to 
available r esources;  
17. Invites Parties, United Nations entities, constituted bodies, implementing entities and 
other relevant stakeholders to enhance implementation of  the gender action plan, including 
the amendments contained in the annex;  
18. Encourages  United Nations en tities to cooperate with Parties on mainstreaming 
gender - and age -disaggregated data in their existing policies, enabling mechanisms and 
programmes, across all levels of governance, and to support Parties in directly applying the 
best available science in the collection and analysis of data sets, including on the impacts of 
extreme weather and slow onset events;  
19. Recalls the open call for submissions under activity D.5 of the gender action plan9 and 
calls for  Parties and relevant organizations to continue t o share experience in engaging 
women’s groups and national women and gender institutions in the process of developing, 
implementing and updating climate policies, plans, strategies and action, as appropriate, at 
all levels of governance;  
20. Adopts  the amendme nts to the gender action plan contained in the annex;  
21. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraph 16 above and paragraphs 1, 6 and 7 of the annex;  
22. Requests  that the actio ns of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
 
 9  Decis ion 3/CP.25, annex, table 4.  FCCC/CP/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 5 Annex  
Amendments to the activities under the gender action plan  
A. Capacity -building, knowledge management and communication  
1. Under activity A.2 in table 1,1 add “leading: secretariat” and “contributing:  United 
Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women, national gender and 
climate focal points” to the “responsibilities” column. The timeline is “prior to COP 28 
(November –December 2023)”. The new deliverable/output is “dialogue with th e United 
Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women, national gender and 
climate change focal points and other relevant stakeholders on how their work contributes to 
the achievement of the objectives of the gender action plan”. Level o f implementation is 
“international”.  
B. Gender balance, participation and women’s leadership  
2. Under activity B.1 in table 2,2 add “including young women, indigenous women and 
women from local communities” after “women delegates” in the description of the activity.  
C. Coherence  
3. Under activity C.1 in table 3,3 include “and existing” after “new” in the 
“deliverables/outputs” column.  
4. Add a new activity in table 3: “C.4 Encourage Parties and relevant UNFCCC 
constituted bodies, in line with their respective mandates, to support action and 
implementation of the enhanced Lima work programme on gender  and its gender action 
plan”. Add “Part ies and constituted bodies” to the “responsibilities” column. The timeline is 
“ongoing to COP 29 (2024)”. The deliverable/output is “inputs to the Standing Committee 
on Finance for preparing the draft guidance to the operating entities of the Financial 
Mechanism”. Level of implementation is “international”.  
D. Gender -responsive implementation and means of implementation  
5. Under activity D.1 in table 4,4 change the timeline for the expert group meeting 
deliverable/output from 2022 to 2023 and add “to be deliver ed in a hybrid or virtual format, 
without creating any precedent” as a deliverable/output.  
 
 1   Decision 3/CP.25, annex, table 1. The aim of activity A.2 is to discuss and clarify the role and the 
work of the national gender and climate change focal points, including through providing capacity -
building, tools and res ources, sharing experience and best practices, workshops, knowledge exchange, 
peer-to-peer learning, mentoring and coaching.  
 2  Decision 3/CP.25, annex, table 2. The aim of activity B.1 is to promote initiatives for capacity -
building in leadership, negoti ation and facilitation of negotiation for women delegates, including 
through webinars and in -session training to enhance women’s participation in the UNFCCC process.  
 3  Decision 3/CP.25, annex, table 3. The aim of activity C.1 is to ensure that new member s of 
constituted bodies are introduced to gender -related mandates and to the relevance of gender in the 
context of their work in a consistent and systematic manner.  
 4  Decision 3/CP.25, annex, table 4. The aim of activity D.1 is to share experience and su pport capacity -
building on gender budgeting, including on the integration of gender -responsive budgeting into 
national budgets to advance gender -responsive climate policies, plans, strategies and action, as 
appropriate.  FCCC/CP/2022/ 10/Add.3  
6  E. Monitoring and reporting  
6. Add a  new activity in table 5: “ E.3 Support the review of the Lima work programme 
on gender and its gender action plan”. Add “Parties and relevant organizations” to the 
“responsibilities” column. Add “by 31 July 2024” as the timeline. Add “submissions to the 
UNFCCC on identifying progres s in implementing the gender action plan, categorized by 
deliverable/output for each gender action plan activity, and further work to be undertaken” 
as a deliverable/output. The level of implementation is “national ”. Also under this activity, 
add “secretar iat” to the “responsibilities” column. Add “SB 61 (2024)” as the timeline.  Add 
“synthesis report on the submissions” as a deliverable/output. Level of implementation is 
“international”.  
7. Add another new activity in table 5: “E.4 Raise awareness of the suppo rt available to 
developing country Parties for reporting on the implementation of the gender action plan”. 
Add “leading: secretariat” and “contributing: relevant organizations” to the “responsibilities” 
column. Add “ongoing to COP 29 (2024)” as the timelin e. Add “ communication of such 
information on the gender web pages on the UNFCCC website” as the deliverable/output. 
The level of implementation is “international” . 
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
 FCCC/CP/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 7   Decision 2 5/CP.27  
  Dates and venues of future sessions  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  Article 7, paragraph 4, of the Convention,  
Also recalling  United Nations General Assembly resolution 40/243 of 18 December 
1985 on the pattern of conferences,  
Further recalling  rule 22, paragraph 1, of the draft rules of procedure being applied 
regarding the rotation of the office of President among the five Un ited Nations regional 
groups,  
Recalling decision 21/CP.26,  
I. 2023  
1. Reiterates its appreciation  for the offer of the Government of the United Arab 
Emirates to host the twenty -eighth session of the Conference of the Parties, the eighteenth 
session of the Confe rence of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol and the fifth session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Paris Agreement;1 
2. Decides  to revise the dates for the second sessional period in 2023 from Monday, 6 
November, to Friday, 17 November, to the following dates: Thursday, 30 November, to 
Tuesday, 12 December;  
3. Requests  the Executive Secretary to continue consultations with the Govern ment of 
the United Arab Emirates and to conclude a Host Country Agreement for convening the 
sessions, pursuant to United Nations General Assembly resolution 40/243 and the provisions 
of United Nations administrative instruction ST/AI/342, including its ann ex, containing the 
model conference agreement, with a view to signing the Host Country Agreement as soon as 
possible, preferably before the fifty -eighth sessions of the subsidiary bodies (June 2023), so 
as to allow for its prompt implementation;  
II. 2024  
4. Notes  that, in keeping with the principle of rotation among the United Nations regional 
groups, the President of the twenty -ninth session of the Conference of the Parties, the 
nineteenth session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Par ties to 
the Kyoto Protocol and the sixth session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement (November 2024) would come from the Eastern 
European States;  
5. Invites Parties to come forward with offers to host the sessions referred to in 
paragraph  4 above, which will be held from Monday, 11 November, to Friday, 22 November 
2024, noting the logistical and financial risks associated with delays in selecting a host 
country and the need for the secretariat to conduc t fact -finding missions to the host country 
in a timely manner;  
6. Requests the Subsidiary Body for Implementation, at its fifty -eighth session, to 
consider the issue of the host of the sessions referred to in paragraph 4 above and to 
recommend a draft decisi on on the matter for consideration and adoption by the Conference 
of the Parties at its twenty -eighth session;  
 
 1 Decision 21/CP.26, para. 4.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.3  
8  III. 2025  
7. Notes  that, in keeping with the principle of rotation among the United Nations regional 
groups, the President of the thirtieth session of th e Conference of the Parties, the twentieth 
session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol and the seventh session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of 
the Parties to the Paris Agre ement (November 2025) would come from the Latin American 
and Caribbean States;  
8. Invites  Parties to come forward with offers to host the sessions referred to in 
paragraph  7 above, which will be held from Monday, 10 November, to Friday, 21 November 
2025, noti ng the logistical and financial risks associated with delays in selecting a host 
country and the need for the secretariat to conduct fact -finding missions to the host country 
in a timely manner;  
9. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation, at its fifty -eighth session, to 
consider the issue of the host of the sessions referred to in paragraph 7 above and to 
recommend a draft decision on the matter for consideration and adoption by the Conference 
of the Parties at its twenty -eighth session;  
IV. Calendar of me etings of the Convention, Kyoto Protocol and 
Paris Agreement bodies  
10. Adopts  the following dates for the sessional periods in 2025:  
(a) First sessional period: Monday, 16 June, to Thursday, 26 June;  
(b) Second sessional period: Monday, 10 November, to Friday, 21 N ovember.  
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2022  
 FCCC/CP/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 9   Decision 2 6/CP.27  
  Administrative, financial and institutional matters  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling the financial procedures for the Conference of the Parties,1 
Having  considered  the information contained in the documents prepared by the 
secretariat on administrative, financial and instituti onal matters,2 
I. Budget  performance for the biennium 2020 –2021  
1. Takes note  of the information contained in the reports on budget performance for the 
biennium 2020 –2021 as at 31 December 20213 and the note on the status of contributions to 
the trust funds administered by the secretariat as at 23 May 2022;4 
2. Expresses its appreci ation  to Parties that made contributions to the core budget in a 
timely manner;  
3. Expresses concern  regarding the high level of outstanding contributions to the core 
budget for the current and previous bienniums, which has resulted  in difficulties with cash 
flow and the effective implementation of activities;  
4. Strongly urges  Parties that have not made contributions in full to the core budget for 
the current and/or previous bienniums to do so without further delay ; 
5. Expresses its appreciation  for the contributio ns to the Trust Fund for Participation in 
the UNFCCC Process and to the Trust Fund for Supplementary  Activities received from 
Parties, including those contributions that allow for greater flexibility in allocation;  
6. Urges  Parties to further contribute to th e Trust Fund for Participation in the UNFCCC 
Process in order to ensure the widest possible participation in the process in 2022 –2023, and 
to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities to ensure a high level of implementation of 
the UNFCCC work programme;   
7. Reiterates its appreciation  to the Government of Germany for its annual voluntary 
contribution to the core budget of EUR 766,938 and its special contribution  of 
EUR  1,789,522 as Host Government of the secretariat;  
8. Requests  the Executive Secretary to take further measures to reduce Parties’ 
outstanding contributions;  
II. Other budgetary matters  
9. Takes note  of the information contained in the document prepared by the secretariat 
on efforts to further improve the efficiency and transparency  of the UNFCCC budget 
process;5  
10. Also takes note  of the information contained in the note by the secretariat on the 
revised scales of indicative contributions for 2022 –2023;6 
11. Adopts  the indicative scale of contributions  contained in the annex;  
 
 1 Decision 15/CP.1, annex I.  
 2 FCCC/SBI/2022/3 and Add.1, FCCC/SBI/2022/9, FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.1, FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.2, 
FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.3, FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.7 and FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.9.  
 3 FCCC/SBI/2022/3 and Add.1.  
 4 FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.9.  
 5 FCCC/SBI/2022/INF .2.  
 6 FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.1.  FCCC/CP/2022/ 10/Add.3  
10  12. Decides  that the scale of contributions contained in the annex shall also be applicable 
for 2022, covering 89 per cent of the contributions specified  in table 1 in decision 22/CP.26;  
13. Takes note  of the information contained in the note on the updated work programm e 
of the secretariat for the biennium 2022 –2023;7 
14. Also takes note  of the information contained in the note on possible long -term 
financing strategies for secretariat employee benefit liabilities ;8 
15. Further takes note  of the mechanisms currently in place f or funding employee 
benefits, as summarized in section III of the note referred  to in paragraph 14 above;  
16. Requests the secretariat to continue implementing  the mechanisms referred to in 
paragraph 15 above;  
17. Also requests the secretariat to inform the Subsid iary Body for Implementation of any 
relevant developments with regard to the funding of employee benefits, including any 
relevant resolutions adopted by the United Nations General Assembly;  
18. Strongly urges the secretariat to publish documents  on budgetary m atters in a timely 
manner;  
III. UNFCCC annual  report  
19. Takes note  of the information contained in the annual report on 2021 secretariat 
activities, programme delivery highlights and financial performance.9 
  
 
 7 FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.3.  
 8 FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.7.  
 9 FCCC/SBI/2022/9.  FCCC/CP/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 11 Annex  
 Indicative scale of contributions from Parties to the 
Convention for 2022 –2023  
Party  United Nations scale of 
assessments for 2022 –2024 (%)  UNFCCC revised indicative scale of 
contributions for 2022 –2023 (%)  
Afghanistan  0.006  0.006  
Albania  0.008  0.008  
Algeria  0.109  0.106  
Andorra  0.005  0.005  
Angola  0.010  0.010  
Antigua and Barbuda  0.002  0.002  
Argentina  0.719  0.701  
Armenia  0.007  0.007  
Australia  2.111  2.058  
Austria  0.679  0.662  
Azerbaijan  0.030  0.029  
Bahamas  0.019  0.019  
Bahrain  0.054  0.053  
Bangladesh  0.010  0.010  
Barbados  0.008  0.008  
Belarus  0.041  0.040  
Belgium  0.828  0.807  
Belize  0.001  0.001  
Benin  0.005  0.005  
Bhutan  0.001  0.001  
Bolivia (Plurinational State of)  0.019  0.019  
Bosnia and Herzegovina  0.012  0.012  
Botswana  0.015  0.015  
Brazil  2.013  1.962  
Brunei Darussalam  0.021  0.020  
Bulgaria  0.056  0.055  
Burkina Faso  0.004  0.004  
Burundi  0.001  0.001  
Cabo Verde  0.001  0.001  
Cambodia  0.007  0.007  
Cameroon  0.013  0.013  
Canada  2.628  2.562  
Central African Republic  0.001  0.001  
Chad  0.003  0.003  
Chile  0.420  0.409  
China  15.254  14.871  
Colombia  0.246  0.240  
Comoros  0.001  0.001  
Congo  0.005  0.005  
Cook Islands  0.000  0.001  
Costa Rica  0.069  0.067  
Côte d’Ivoire  0.022  0.021  
Croatia  0.091  0.089  FCCC/CP/2022/ 10/Add.3  
12  Party  United Nations scale of 
assessments for 2022 –2024 (%)  UNFCCC revised indicative scale of 
contributions for 2022 –2023 (%)  
Cuba  0.095  0.093  
Cyprus  0.036  0.035  
Czechia  0.340  0.331  
Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea  0.005  0.005  
Democratic Republic of the 
Congo  0.010  0.010  
Denmark  0.553  0.539  
Djibouti  0.001  0.001  
Dominica  0.001  0.001  
Dominican Republic  0.067  0.065  
Ecuador  0.077  0.075  
Egypt  0.139  0.136  
El Salvador  0.013  0.013  
Equatorial Guinea  0.012  0.012  
Eritrea  0.001  0.001  
Estonia  0.044  0.043  
Eswatini  0.002  0.002  
Ethiopia  0.010  0.010  
European Union  0.000  2.500  
Fiji 0.004  0.004  
Finland  0.417  0.407  
France  4.318  4.209  
Gabon  0.013  0.013  
Gambia  0.001  0.001  
Georgia  0.008  0.008  
Germany  6.111  5.957  
Ghana  0.024  0.023  
Greece  0.325  0.317  
Grenada  0.001  0.001  
Guatemala  0.041  0.040  
Guinea  0.003  0.003  
Guinea -Bissau  0.001  0.001  
Guyana  0.004  0.004  
Haiti  0.006  0.006  
Honduras  0.009  0.009  
Hungary  0.228  0.222  
Iceland  0.036  0.035  
India  1.044  1.018  
Indonesia  0.549  0.535  
Iran (Islamic Republic of)  0.371  0.362  
Iraq 0.128  0.125  
Ireland  0.439  0.428  
Israel  0.561  0.547  
Italy 3.189  3.109  
Jamaica  0.008  0.008  
Japan  8.033  7.831  
Jordan  0.022  0.021  
Kazakhstan  0.133  0.130  FCCC/CP/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 13 Party  United Nations scale of 
assessments for 2022 –2024 (%)  UNFCCC revised indicative scale of 
contributions for 2022 –2023 (%)  
Kenya  0.030  0.029  
Kiribati  0.001  0.001  
Kuwait  0.234  0.228  
Kyrgyzstan  0.002  0.002  
Lao People’s Democratic 
Republic  0.007  0.007  
Latvia  0.050  0.049  
Lebanon  0.036  0.035  
Lesotho  0.001  0.001  
Liberia  0.001  0.001  
Libya  0.018  0.018  
Liechtenstein  0.010  0.010  
Lithuania  0.077  0.075  
Luxembourg  0.068  0.066  
Madagascar  0.004  0.004  
Malawi  0.002  0.002  
Malaysia  0.348  0.339  
Maldives  0.004  0.004  
Mali  0.005  0.005  
Malta  0.019  0.019  
Marshall Islands  0.001  0.001  
Mauritania  0.002  0.002  
Mauritius  0.019  0.019  
Mexico  1.221  1.190  
Micronesia (Federated States 
of) 0.001  0.001  
Monaco  0.011  0.011  
Mongolia  0.004  0.004  
Montenegro  0.004  0.004  
Morocco  0.055  0.054  
Mozambique  0.004  0.004  
Myanmar  0.010  0.010  
Namibia  0.009  0.009  
Nauru  0.001  0.001  
Nepal  0.010  0.010  
Netherlands  1.377  1.342  
New Zealand  0.309  0.301  
Nicaragua  0.005  0.005  
Niger  0.003  0.003  
Nigeria  0.182  0.177  
Niue  0.000  0.001  
North Macedonia  0.007  0.007  
Norway  0.679  0.662  
Oman  0.111  0.108  
Pakistan  0.114  0.111  
Palau  0.001  0.001  
Panama  0.090  0.088  
Papua New Guinea  0.010  0.010  
Paraguay  0.026  0.025  FCCC/CP/2022/ 10/Add.3  
14  Party  United Nations scale of 
assessments for 2022 –2024 (%)  UNFCCC revised indicative scale of 
contributions for 2022 –2023 (%)  
Peru 0.163  0.159  
Philippines  0.212  0.207  
Poland  0.837  0.816  
Portugal  0.353  0.344  
Qatar  0.269  0.262  
Republic of Korea  2.574  2.509  
Republic of Moldova  0.005  0.005  
Romania  0.312  0.304  
Russian Federation  1.866  1.819  
Rwanda  0.003  0.003  
Saint Kitts and Nevis  0.002  0.002  
Saint Lucia  0.002  0.002  
Saint Vincent and the 
Grenadines  0.001  0.001  
Samoa  0.001  0.001  
San Marino  0.002  0.002  
Sao Tome and Principe  0.001  0.001  
Saudi Arabia  1.184  1.154  
Senegal  0.007  0.007  
Serbia  0.032  0.031  
Seychelles  0.002  0.002  
Sierra Leone  0.001  0.001  
Singapore  0.504  0.491  
Slovakia  0.155  0.151  
Slovenia  0.079  0.077  
Solomon Islands  0.001  0.001  
Somalia  0.001  0.001  
South Africa  0.244  0.238  
South Sudan  0.002  0.002  
Spain  2.134  2.080  
Sri Lanka  0.045  0.044  
State of Palestine  0.000  0.011  
Sudan  0.010  0.010  
Suriname  0.003  0.003  
Sweden  0.871  0.849  
Switzerland  1.134  1.105  
Syrian Arab Republic  0.009  0.009  
Tajikistan  0.003  0.003  
Thailand  0.368  0.359  
Timor -Leste  0.001  0.001  
Togo  0.002  0.002  
Tonga  0.001  0.001  
Trinidad and Tobago  0.037  0.036  
Tunisia  0.019  0.019  
Türkiye  0.845  0.824  
Turkmenistan  0.034  0.033  
Tuvalu  0.001  0.001  
Uganda  0.010  0.010  
Ukraine  0.056  0.055  FCCC/CP/2022/ 10/Add.3  
 15 Party  United Nations scale of 
assessments for 2022 –2024 (%)  UNFCCC revised indicative scale of 
contributions for 2022 –2023 (%)  
United Arab Emirates  0.635  0.619  
United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland  4.375  4.265  
United Republic of Tanzania  0.010  0.010  
United States of America  22.000  21.447  
Uruguay  0.092  0.090  
Uzbekistan  0.027  0.026  
Vanuatu  0.001  0.001  
Venezuela (Bolivarian 
Republic of)  0.175  0.171  
Viet Nam  0.093  0.091  
Yemen  0.008  0.008  
Zambia  0.008  0.008  
Zimbabwe  0.007  0.007  
Total  100.000  100.000  
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2022  
 FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.3  
16    Decision 27/CP.27  
   Administrative, financial and institutional matters  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling the financial procedures for the Conference of the Parties,1 
Having  considered  the information contained in the documents prepared by the 
secretariat on administrative, financial and institutional matters for this session,2 
I. Audit report and fin ancial statements for 2021  
1. Takes note  of the financial report and audited financial statements for 2021 and the 
report of the United Nations Board of Auditors, which include recommendations, and the 
comments of the secretariat thereon;  
2. Expresses its appreciation  to the United  Nations for arra nging the audit of the 
accounts of the Convention;  
3. Also expresses its appreciation  to the auditors  for their valuable observations and 
recommendations;  
4. Expresses  concern  about the high number of recommendations from the United 
Nations Board of Auditors not yet implemented by the secretariat;  
5. Urges  the Executive Secretary to implement the recommendations of the auditors , as 
appropriate, and to update Parties on progress;  
II. Other financial and budgetary matters  
6. Takes note  of the information contained in the note on the updated work programme 
of the secretariat for the biennium 2022 –2023;3 
7. Also takes note  of the information contained in the note on the status of contributions 
to the trust funds administered by the secretariat as at 21 October  2022;4 
8. Expresses its appreciation  to Parties that made contributions  to the core budget in a 
timely manner;  
9. Expresses concern  regarding the high level of outstanding contributions to the core 
budget for the current and previous bienniums, which has resulted  in difficulties with cash 
flow and the effective implementation of activities;  
10. Strongly urges  Parties that have not made contributions  in full to the core budget for 
the current and/or previous bienniums to do so without further delay;  
11. Expresses its appreciation  for the contributions to the Trust Fund for Participation in 
the UNFCCC Process and to the Trust Fund for Supplement ary Activities received from 
Parties, including those contributions that allow for greater flexibility in allocation;  
12. Urges  Parties to further contribute to the Trust Fund for Participation in the UNFCCC 
Process in order to ensure the widest possible parti cipation in the process in 2022 –2023, and 
to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities to ensure a high level of implementation of 
the UNFCCC work programme;  
 
 1 Decision 15/CP.1, annex I.  
 2 FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.10 and Add.1, FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.11 and FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.16.  
 3 FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.11.  
 4 FCCC/SBI/2022/INF.16.  FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.3  
 17 13. Reiterates its appreciation  to the Government of Germany for its annual voluntary 
contribution to the core budget of EUR 766,938 and its special contribution  of 
EUR  1,789,522 as Host Government of the secretariat;  
14. Requests  the Executive Secretary to take further measures to reduce Parties’ 
outstanding contributions.  
9th plenary meeting  
17 November 2 022 
 FCCC/CP/2022/10/Add.3  
18  Resolution 1/C P.27 
Expression of gratitude to the Government of the Arab 
Republic of Egypt and the people of the city of 
Sharm  el-Sheikh  
  Resolution submitted by the United Arab Emirates  
The Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement , 
Having met  in Sharm el -Sheikh from 6 to 20 November 2022,  
1. Express their profound gratitude to the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt 
for having made it possible for the twenty -seventh session of the Conference of  the Parties, 
the seventeenth session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties 
to the Kyoto Protocol and the fourth session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement to be he ld in Sharm el -Sheikh;  
2. Request the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt to convey to the city and 
people of Sharm el -Sheikh the gratitude of the Conference of the Parties, the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto  Protocol and the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement for the hospitality and 
warmth extended to the participants.  
10th plenary meeting  
20 November 2022  
      
 
GE.18 -01342(E)  

Conference of the Parties  
  Report of the Conference of the Parties on its twenty -third 
session, held in Bonn from 6 to 18 November 2017  
Addendum  
 Part two: Acti on taken by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -
third session  
Contents  
  Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties  
Decision  Page 
  1/CP.23  Fiji momentum for implementation  ................................ ..................   2 
  2/CP.23  Local communities and indigenous peoples platform  .......................   11 
  3/CP.23  Establishment of a gender action plan  ................................ ..............   13 
  4/CP.23  Koronivia joint work on agriculture  ................................ .................   19 
  5/CP.23  Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated  
with Climate Change Impacts  ................................ ...........................   20 
  6/CP.23  Long -term climate finance  ................................ ................................   23 
  7/CP.23  Report of the Standing Committee on Finance  ................................ .  25 
  8/CP.23  Review of the functions of the Standing Committee on Finance  ......  27 
  9/CP.23  Report of the Green Climate Fund to the Conference of the Parties  
and guidance to the Green Climate Fund  ................................ ..........   29 
  10/CP.23  Report of the Global Environment Facility to the Conference of  
the Parties and guidance to the Global Environment Facility  ...........   32 
  11/CP.23  Sixth review of the Financial Mechanism  ................................ ........   34 
  12/CP.23  Process to identify the information to be provided by Parties in  
accordance with Article 9, paragraph 5, of the Paris Agreement  ......  35  
United Nations  FCCC /CP/2017/ 11/Add.1  
  
Distr.: General  
8 February  2018  
 
Original: English  
FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.1  
2    Decision 1/CP.23  
  Fiji momentum for implementation  
 The Conference of the Parties , 
 Recalling  the Paris Agreement, adopted under the Convention , 
 Also recalling decisions 1/CP.21, 1/CP. 22 and 1/CMA. 1, 
 Congratulating Parties that have ratified, accepted or approved, or acceded to the 
Paris Agreement,  
 Underscoring the importance  of keeping the momentum and continuing to uphold 
the spirit and vision of the Paris Agreement,   
 Highlight ing the urgency of the completion of the work prog ramme under the Paris 
Agreement,  
I. Completion of the work programme under the Paris 
Agreement  
1. Welcomes progress in the implementation of the work programme under the Paris 
Agreement , described in decision 1/CMA .1 and decision 1/CP.22,  by the Conference of the 
Parties, all three subsidiary bodies and the constituted bodies under the Convention;   
2. Confirms  its firm determination  to oversee and accelerate the completion of the 
work programme under the Paris Agreemen t by its twenty -fourth session (December 2018) 
and to forward the outcome s for consideration and adoption by the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement at the third part of its 
first session (December 2018);  
3. Requests the secretariat to devel op an online platform that will  provide an overview , 
based on the list contained in annex  I, with weblinks to complete  information and 
references on the work of the Conference of the Parties and the subsidiary and constitut ed 
bodies  on the work programme under the Paris Agreement ;  
4. Reiterates its request to the subsidiary and constituted bodies to accelerate their 
work on the work programme under the Paris Agreement and to forward the outcomes to 
the Conference of the Partie s at its twenty -fourth session at the latest;1 
5. Recognizes that an additional negotiating session for all three subsidiary bodies may 
be needed between the forty -eighth sessions of the subsidiary bodies (April –May 2018) and 
the twenty -fourth session of the Conference of the Parties, to facilitate the timely  
completion of the work programme under the Paris Agreement by the twenty -fourth session 
of the Conference of the Parties, in accordance with decisions 1/CP.22 and 1/CMA.1;  
6. Decides  that its President,  in consultation with the Bureau of the Conference of the 
Parties and the Co -Chairs of the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris Agreement,  will 
assess the need for the additional negotiating session referred to in paragraph 5 above , on 
the basis of the outcomes of the forty -eighth sessions of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific 
and Technological Advice  and the Subsidiary Body for Implementation and the fifth part of 
the first session of the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Par is Agreement (April –May 2018) , 
and guide the secretariat accordingly ; 
7. Agrees that, should the additional negotiating session  referred to in paragraph 5 
above be needed, it would address matters relating to the  work prog ramme under the Paris 
Agreement  being considered by the subsidiary bodies;  
                                                           
 1 Decision 1/CP.22, paragraph 10.  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.1  
 3 8. Also agrees  that the additional negotiating session  referred to in paragraph 5 above  
should be organized in a cost -effective man ner, including with respect to the length of the 
session and related logistical matters such as interpretation and translation into the official 
United Nations languages, while also allowing for the  effective participation of delegates 
from developing coun tries;  
9. Requests the secretariat to make provisional and, if required, final arrangements for 
the additional negotiating session  referred to in paragraph 5 above , and to finalize the 
arrangements should the addit ional negotiating session be confirmed, subject to the 
availability of financial resources;  
II. Talanoa Dialogue  
10. Welcomes with appreciation  the design of the 2018 facilitative dialogue, to be 
known as the Talanoa Dialogue , announced at the twenty -third session  of the Conference of 
the Parties by the President s of the twenty -second and twenty -third sessions of the 
Conference of the  Parties, as contained in the informal note by the Presidencies of the 
twenty -second and twenty -third sessions of the Conference of t he Parties (see annex II) ; 
11. Launches the Talanoa Dialogue, which will start in January 2018;  
III. Pre-2020 implementation and ambition  
Noting that all Parties share the view that pre -2020 implementation and ambition 
are of utmost importance,  
Emphasizing  that en hanced pre -2020 ambition can lay a solid foundation for 
enhanced post -2020 ambition,  
Recognizing the importance of continued  consideration by the Conference of the 
Parties of the efforts of Parties in relation to  action and support in the pre -2020 period , 
Also recognizing the importance  of bringing visibility to and creating a more 
coherent understanding of the pre -2020 work of the UNFCCC bodies,  
Further recognizing  the commitment undertaken by developed country Parties to a 
goal of mobilizing jointly USD 1 00 billion annually by 2020 to address the needs of 
developing countries in the context of meaningful mitigation actions and transparency on 
implementation,  
Noting that biennial high -level ministerial dialogues on climate finance will be held 
in 2018 and 2 020 in accordance with decision 3/CP.19,  
Also noting  that the Standing Committee on Finance will prepare biennial 
assessments and overviews of climate finance flows in 2018 and 2020 in accordance with 
decision 2/CP.17,  
12. Requests the President of the Confere nce of the Parties and the  UNFCCC  Executive 
Secretary to send joint letters to Parties to the Kyoto Protocol that are yet to ratify the Doha 
Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol urging  them to deposit their instruments of acceptance 
with the Depositary as soon as possible;  
13. Also requests  the secretariat to consult the United Nations Secretary -General on 
ways to promote the ratification of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol;  
14. Invites Parties to submit via the submission portal ,2 by 1 May 2018 , additional 
information on progress in implementing decision 1/CP.21, section  IV: enhanced action 
prior to 2020;  
15. Requests the secretariat to prepare a synthesis report o n the submissions referred to 
in paragraph 14 above as inp ut to the stocktake referred to in paragraph 17 below;  
                                                           
 2 http://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionportal/Pages/Home.aspx . FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.1  
4  16. Welcomes  the report of the President of the Conference of the Parties that noted that 
the 2018 facilitative dialogue3 (Talanoa Dialogue) will consider , as a n element of the 
dialogue,  the efforts of Parties in relation to  action and support , as appropriate, in the pre -
2020 period;  
17. Decides  to convene a stocktake on pre -2020 implementation and ambition at the 
twenty -fourth session of the Conference of the Parti es, which will apply the format  of the 
2016 facilitative dialogue4 and consider, inter alia:  
(a) The inputs of the Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol, the Subsidiary Body for 
Implementation, the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice, the 
constituted bodies under the Convention and the Kyoto Protocol, and the operating entities 
of the Financial Mechanism;  
(b) The mitigation efforts of Parties in the pre -2020 period;  
(c) The provision of support in the pre -2020 period;  
(d) The work of the Marrakech Partnership for Global Climate Action, including 
the summaries for policymakers of the technical examination processes and  the yearbooks 
on climate action prepared by the high -level  champions;  
18. Also d ecides to convene a stocktake on pre -2020 implementation and ambition at the 
twenty -fifth session of the Conference of the Parties (November 2019), which will apply 
the format  of the stocktake referred to in paragraph 17 above and consider, inter alia:  
(a) The inputs of the Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol, the Subsidiary Body for 
Implementation, the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice, the 
constituted bodies under the Convention and the Kyoto Protocol, and the operating entities 
of the Financial Mechanism;  
(b) The outcomes of the high -level ministerial dialogue on climate finance to be 
held at the twe nty-fourth session of the Conference of the Parties;  
(c) The relevant outcomes of the Talanoa Dialogue referred to in paragraph 16 
above;  
(d) The outcomes of the stocktake referred to in paragraph 17 above;  
(e) The work of the Marrakech Partnership for Global Climate Action, including 
the summaries for policymakers of the technical examination processes a nd the yearbooks 
on climate action prepared by the high -level champions;  
19. Requ ests the secretariat to prepare reports on the stocktakes referred to in paragraphs 
17 and 18 above ; 
20. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activit ies to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in this decision and requests  that the actions called for in this 
decision be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources.  
                                                           
 3 Pursuant to decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 20,  and decision 1/CP.22, paragraph 16.  
 4 As established by decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 115 . See also http://unfccc.int/9985 . FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.1  
 5 Annex I  
Work of the Conference of the Parties and the subsidia ry and 
constituted bodies on the work programme under the Paris 
Agreement  for the first session of the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement1 
 Matters relating to Article 4 of the Paris Agreement and paragrap hs 22 –35 of decision 1/CP.21  
(a) Further guidance in relation to the mitigation section of decision 1/CP.21 
(APA*) 
(b) Modalities and procedures for the operation and use of a public registry 
referred to in Article 4 , paragraph 12 (NDC registry) (SBI)  
(c) Common time frames for NDCs (Article 4 , paragraph  10) (SBI)  
(d) Modalities, work programme and functions under the Paris Agreement of the 
forum on the impact of the implementation of response measures (SBSTA/SBI)  
 Matters relating to Article 6 of the Paris Agreement and pa ragraphs 36 –40 of decision 1/CP.21  
(a) Guidance on cooperative approaches (Article 6, paragraph 2) ( SBSTA ) 
(b) Rules, modalities and procedures for the mechanism (Article 6, paragraph 4) 
(SBSTA )  
(c) Work  programme under the framework for non -market approaches (Art icle 6, 
paragraph  8) (SBSTA)  
 Matters relating to Article 7 of the Paris Agreement and para graph s 41, 42 and 45 of decision  1/CP.21  
(a) Further guidance for the adaptation communication ( APA) 
(b) Modalities and procedures for the operation and use of a public regist ry 
referred to in Article 7, paragraph 12 (adaptation registry) ( SBI) 
(c) Review of adaptation -related institutional arrangements under the 
Convention ( AC; SBSTA/SBI )  
(d) Methodologies for assessing adaptation needs with a view to assisting 
developing country Par ties without placing an undue burden on them ( AC; SBSTA/SBI ) 
(e) Modalities for the recognition of adaptation efforts of developing country 
Parties under Article 7, paragraph 3 ( AC/LEG; SBSTA/SBI ) 
(f) Methodologies to facilitate the mobilization of support for ada ptation in 
developing countries ( AC/LEG, in collaboration with SCF; SBSTA/SBI ) 
(g) Methodologies on reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of adaptation 
and support referred to in Article 7,  paragraph 14(c) (AC/LEG, in collaboration with SCF; 
SBSTA/SBI)  
 Matt ers relating to Article 8 of the Paris Agreement and para graph s 47–51 of decision  1/CP.21  
                                                           
 1 Weblinks to facilitators’ notes prepared during this session will be made available on the UNFCCC 
website.  
 * Abbreviations:  AC = Adap tation Committee, APA = Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris 
Agreement , COP = Conference o f the Parties, LEG = Least Developed Countries Expert 
Group, NDC = nationally determined contribution , SBI = Subsidiary Body for 
Implementation , SBSTA = Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice , 
SCF = Standing Committee on Finance , WIM Excom  = Executive Committee of the 
Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated with Climate Change 
Impacts . FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.1  
6  (a) Warsaw  International Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated with 
Climate Change Impacts (WIM Ex com) 
 Matters relating to Article 9 of the Paris Agreement and para graphs 52–64 of decision  1/CP.21  
(a) Modalities for the accounting of financial resources provided and mobilized 
through public interventions in accordance with Article 9, paragraph 7 (SBSTA)  
(b) Process to identify information to be provided by Parties in accordance  with 
Article 9, paragraph 5 ( COP ) 
(c) Adaptation Fund (APA)  
 Matters relating to Article 10 of the Paris Agreement and para graph s 66–70 of decision  1/CP.21  
(a) Scope and modalities of the periodic assessment of the Technology 
Mechanism ( SBI) 
(b) Technology framework under Article 10, paragraph 4 (SBSTA)  
 Matters relating to Article 11 of the Paris Agreement and para graph  81 of decision  1/CP.21  
(a) Institutional arrangements on capacity -building to support the Paris 
Agreement (Article 11, paragraph 5) (COP)  
 Matters relating  to Article 12 of the Paris Agreement and para graph s 82 and 83 of decision  1/CP.21  
(a) Enhancing the implementation of education, training, public awareness, 
public participation and public access to information (SBI)  
 Matters relating to Article 13 of the Par is Agreement and para graph s 84–98 of decision  1/CP.21  
(a) Modalities, procedures and guidelines for the enhanced transparency 
framework for action and support (APA)  
 Matters relating to Article 14 of the Paris Agreement and para graph s 99–101 of decision  1/CP.2 1  
(a) Matters relating to the global stocktake (inputs/modalities) ( APA) 
 Matters relating to Article 15 of the Paris Agreement and para graphs  102 and 103 of decision  1/CP.21  
(a) Modalities and procedures for the effective operation of the committee to 
facilitate  implementation and promote compliance (APA)  
 Possible additional  matters relating to the implementation of the Paris Agreement (APA)2 
                                                           
 2 Different views were expressed by Parties on whether possible additional matters should be added to 
the work programme under the Par is Agreement for the first session of the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement, including the issues discussed under 
agenda item 8 of the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris Agreement.  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.1  
 7 Annex II * 
[English only ] 
Informal note by the Presidencies of COP 22 and COP 23  
17 November 2017  
Talanoa dialogue  
Approac h 
The Presidencies of COP 22 and COP 23 conducted extensive consultations on the Talanoa 
dialogue throughout 2017, which continued during the twenty -third session of the COP. 
This informal note has been prepared by the Presidencies of COP 22 and COP 23 on this 
basis.  
Mandate  
The COP by its decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 20, decided to “convene a facilitative dialogue 
among Parties in 2018 to take stock of the collective efforts of Parties in relation to 
progress towards the long -term goal referred to in Artic le 4, paragraph 1, of the Agreement 
and to inform the preparation of nationally determined contributions pursuant to Article 4, 
paragraph 8, of the Agreement”.  
Features of the Talanoa dialogue  
Based on input received by Parties, the main features of the d ialogue are as follows:  
− The dialogue should be constructive, facilitative and solutions oriented;  
− The dialogue should not lead to discussions of a confrontational nature in which 
individual Parties or groups of Parties are singled out;  
− The dialogue will be  conducted in the spirit of the Pacific tradition of Talanoa:  
o Talanoa is a traditional approach used in Fiji and the Pacific to engage in 
an inclusive, participatory and transparent dialogue;  
o The purpose of Talanoa is to share stories, build empathy and trust;  
o During the process, participants advance their knowledge through 
common understanding;  
o It creates a platform of dialogue, which results in better decision -making 
for the collective good;  
o By focusing on the benefits of collective action, this proce ss will inform 
decision -making and move the global climate agenda forward;  
− The dialogue should be conducted in a manner that promotes cooperation;  
− The dialogue will be structured around three general topics:  
o Where are we?  
o Where do we want to go?  
o How do  we get there?  
                                                           
 * Reproduced as receiv ed from the Presidents of the twenty -second and twenty -third sessions of the 
Conference of the Parties.  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.1  
8  − The dialogue will be conducted in a manner that promotes enhanced ambition. The 
dialogue will consider, as one of its elements, the efforts of Parties on action and 
support, as appropriate, in the pre -2020 period;  
− The dialogue will fulfil it s mandate, in a comprehensive and non -restrictive manner;  
− The dialogue will consist of a preparatory and a political phase;  
− The Presidencies of COP 23 and COP 24 will jointly lead both phases of the 
dialogue  and co -chair the political phase at COP 24;  
− A de dicated space will be provided in the dialogue, both during the preparatory and 
the political phase to facilitate the understanding of the implications of the Special 
Report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change on Global Warming of 
1.5°C;  
− As re gards inputs to the dialogue:  
o The Special Report by the IPCC on global warming of 1.5 °C requested 
by the COP will inform the dialogue;  
o Parties, stakeholders and expert institutions are encouraged to prepare 
analytical and policy relevant inputs to inform the dialogue and submit 
these and other proposed inputs, including those from intergovernmental 
organisations and UNFCCC bodies, by 2 April 2018 for discussions in 
conjunction with the May session, and by 29 October 2018 for 
discussions in conjunction with  COP 24;  
o The Presidencies of COP 23 and COP 24 will also provide inputs to 
inform the dialogue;  
o An online platform will facilitate access to all inputs to the dialogue, 
which will be overseen by the Presidencies of COP 23 and COP 24;  
o The secretariat will b e requested to prepare relevant inputs and to develop 
and manage the online platform under the guidance of the Presidencies of 
COP 23 and COP 24;  
− The preparatory phase will seek to build a strong evidence -based foundation for the 
political phase:  
o The prepa ratory phase will start after the dialogue is launched at COP 23 , 
in January 2018,  and will end at COP 24;  
o Parties and non -Party stakeholders are invited to cooperate in convening 
local, national, regional or global events in support of the dialogue and t o 
prepare and make available relevant inputs;  
o The May discussions will be used to explore the three central topics 
informed by inputs by various actors and institutions, including from the 
Technical Examination Process and Global Climate Action, with the 
support of the high -level champions;  
o Summaries from all discussions will be prepared under the authority of 
the Presidencies of COP 23 and COP 24;  
o The information and insights gained during the preparatory phase will be 
synthesised by the Presidencies of C OP 23 and COP 24 to provide a 
foundation for the political phase;  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.1  
 9 Figure 1 - Preparatory phase  
 
 
− The political phase will bring high -level representatives of Parties together to take 
stock of the collective efforts of Parties in relation to progress towa rds the long -term 
goal referred to in Article 4, paragraph 1, of the Agreement and to inform the 
preparation of nationally determined contributions pursuant to Article 4, paragraph 
8, of the Agreement:  
o The political phase will take place at COP 24 with the  participation of 
Ministers;  
o This phase will build on the preparatory phase and focus on the 
objectives of the dialogue;  
o Political discussions will include roundtables to ensure focuss ed and 
interactive discussions among Ministers;  
o At the closing meeting  of the dialogue, the Presidencies of COP 23 and 
COP 24 will provide a summary of key messages from the roundtables;  
FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.1  
10  Figure 2 - Political phase  
 
 
− It will be important to send clear forward looking signals to ensure that the outcome 
of the dialogue is gre ater confidence, courage and enhanced ambition;  
− The outcome of the dialogue is expected to capture the political momentum, and 
help Parties to inform the preparation of nationally determined contributions;  
− The outputs of the dialogue will inclu de reports and summaries of the discussions.  
14th plenary meeting  
18 November 201 7 
FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.1  
 11   Decision 2/CP.23  
  Local communities and indigenous peoples platform  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, 
decision 1/CP.21 and the Paris Agreement,  
Acknowledging  that Parties should, when taking action to address climate change, 
respect, promote and consider their respective obligations on the rights of indigenous 
peoples and local communities , 
Emphasizing the ro le of local communities and indigenous peoples in achieving the 
targets and goals set out in the Convention, the Paris Agreement and the 2030 Agenda for 
Sustainable Development, and recognizing  their vulnerability to climate change , 
Reaffirming  the need to  strengthen the knowledge, technologies, practices and 
efforts of local communities and indigenous peoples related to addressing and responding 
to climate change, and the importance of the platform established for the exchange of 
experience and sharing of best practices related to  mitigation and adaptation in a holistic 
and integrated manner ,  
1. Notes with appreciation the submissions from Parties,1 indigenous peoples 
organizations and other relevant organizations2 on the purpose, content and structure of the  
local communities and indigenous peoples platform (hereinafter referred to as the 
platform);  
2. Acknowledges  the fruitful exchange of views that took place during the open m ulti-
stakeholder dialogue that was convened by the Chair of the Subsidiary Body for S cientific 
and Technological Advice  and co -moderated with a representative of indigenous peoples 
organizations during the forty -sixth session of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and 
Technological Advice, on 16 and 17 May 2017;3 
3. Notes with appreciation  the support provided by Belgium and New Zealand for the 
participation of representatives of indigenous peoples organizations in the multi -
stakeholder dialogue  referred to in paragraph 2 above ; 
4. Welcomes  the report on the proposals on the operationalization of the platform based 
on the open multi -stakeholder dialogue referred to in paragraph 2 above and  the 
submissions received;4 
5. Decides  that the overall purpose s of the platform will be to strengthen the 
knowledge, technologies, practices and efforts of local co mmunities and indigenous 
peoples related to addressing and responding to climate change, to facilitate the exchange 
of experience and the sharing of best practices and lessons learned related to  mitigation and 
adaptation in a holistic and integrated manner  and to enhance the engagement of local 
communities and indigenous peoples in the UNFCCC process ; 
6. Also d ecides  that the platform will perform  the following functions:  
(a) Knowledge : the platform should promote the exchange of experience and 
best practices with a view to  applying, strengthening, protecting and preserving traditional 
knowledge, knowledge of indigenous peoples and local knowledge systems , as well as 
                                                           
 1 Available at 
http://www4.unfccc.int/submissions/SitePages/sessions.aspx?showOnlyCurrentCalls=1&themes=Ada
ptation&expectedsubmissionfrom=Parties&focalBodies=SBSTA . 
 2 Available at http://unfccc.int/documentation/submissions_from_non -
party_stakeholders/items/7482.php . 
 3 See http://unfccc.int/10151 . 
 4 FCCC/SBSTA/2017/6.  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.1  
12  technologies, practices and efforts of local communities and indigenous peoples related to 
addressi ng and responding to climate change, taking into account the free, prior and 
informed consent of the holders of such knowledge, innovations and practices;  
(b) Capacity for engagement : the platform should build the capacit y of 
indigenous peoples and local commu nities to enable their engagement in the UNFCCC 
process  and the capacit y of Parties and other relevant stakeholders to engage with the 
platform and with local communities and indigenous peoples , including in the context of 
the implementation of the Paris A greement and other climate change related processes ; 
(c) Climate change policies and actions : the platform should facilitate the 
integration of diverse knowledge systems, practices and innovations in designing and 
implementing international and national action s, programmes and policies in a manner that 
respects and promotes the rights and interests of local communities and indigenous peoples. 
The platform should also facilitate  the undertaking of  stronger and more ambitious climate 
action by indigenous peoples and local communities that could contribute to the 
achievement of the nationally determined contributions of the Parties concerned;  
7. Further decides  to continue to work towards the full operationalization of the 
platform;  
8. Recommends  that the processes under  the platform , including its operationalization , 
take into account, inter alia, the interests and views of local communities and indigenous 
peoples,  as well as the following principles proposed by indigenous peoples organizations : 
full and effective partic ipation of indigenous peoples; equal status of indigenous peoples 
and Parties, including in leadership roles; self -selection of indigenous  peoples  
representatives in accordance with indigenous peoples’ own procedures; and adequate 
funding from the secretar iat and voluntary contributi ons to enable the  functions  referred to 
in paragraph 6 above;  
9. Decides  that the first activity  of the platform will be a multi -stakeholder workshop 
on implementing the functions referred to in paragraph 6 above, to be co -moderate d by the 
Chair of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice and a representative 
of local communities and indigenous peoples organizations , who will each  make an equal 
contribution to the design of the workshop ; 
10. Requests  the Subsidiary Bo dy for Scientific and Technological Advice  to consider at 
its forty -eighth session (April –May 2018) the further operationalization of the platform, 
including the establishment of a facilitative working group,  which would  not be a 
negotiating body under the Convention,  and the modalities for the development of a 
workplan  for the full implementation of the functions referred to in paragraph 6 above, with 
balanced representation of local communities and indigenous peoples and Parties, and to 
conclude its consi derations by making recommendations to the Conference of the Parties at 
its twenty -fourth session (December 2018);  
11. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraph 9 above;  
12. Requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
12th plenary meeting  
17 November 2017FCCC/CP/20 17/11/Add.1  
 13   Decision 3/CP.23  
  Establishment of a gender action plan  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  decisions 36/CP.7, 1/CP.16, 23/CP.18, 18/CP.20, 1/CP.21 and 21/CP.22 , 
as well as the Paris Agreement , 
Reaffirming  the General Assembly resolution on the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development , 
Noting  that gender -responsive climate polic y continues to require further 
strengthening in all activities concerning adaptation, mitigation and related means of 
implementation (finance, technology development and transfer , and capacity -building) , as 
well as decision -making on the implementation of climate policies,1  
Also noting that, notwithstanding the progress made by Parties in implementing the 
decisions referred to above, there is a need for women to be represented in all aspects of 
the Convention  process and a need for gender mainstreaming thr ough all relevant targets 
and goals in activities under the Convention as an im portant contribution to increasing  their 
effectiveness,  
Acknowledging with appreciation the important role of the extended Lima work 
programme on gender in integrating gender co nsiderations into the work of Parties and the 
secretariat in implementing the Convention , and the role of the gender action plan 
(contained in the annex) in supporting the implementation of gender -related decisions and 
mandates under the UNFCCC process,  
Recalling  decision 21/CP.22, paragraph 27, which mandated the development of a 
gender action plan in order to support the implementation of gender -related decisions and 
mandates under the UNFCCC process, which may include priority areas, key activities and 
indicators, timelines for implementation, responsible and key actors and indicative 
resource requirements for each activity, and the further elaboration of its review and 
monitoring processes,  
Also r ecalling that Parties should, when taking action to addres s climate change, 
respect, promote and consider their respective obligations on human rights as well as 
gender equality,  
Taking into account  the imperative of a just transition of the workforce when 
implementing the gender action plan,  
1. Adopts  the gender action plan, contained in the  annex, under the Lima work 
programme on gender ;  
2. Invite s Parties, members of constituted bodies, United Nations organizations, 
observers and other stakeholders to participate and engage in implementing the gender 
action plan  with a view  to advanc ing towards  the goal of mainstreaming a gender 
perspective in all elements of climate action ; 
3. Welcomes  the technical paper prepared by the secretariat on achieving  the goal of 
gender balance ;2 
4. Notes  the lack of progress made in delegation s and const ituted bodies towards the 
goal of gender balance;  
5. Requests  the secretariat to prepare , for consideration  by the Subsidiary Body for 
Implementation  at its session to be held in November 2019 , a synthesis report on the 
                                                           
 1 Decision 21/CP.22.  
 2 FCCC/TP /2017/8 .  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.1  
14  implementation of the gender  action plan , identifying areas of progress , areas for 
improvement and further work to be undertaken in subsequent action plans, so as to 
elaborate recommendations for consideration by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -
fifth session  (November 201 9) in the context of the review referred to in paragraph 7 
below;  
6. Decides  that the topic s of the annual in -session workshops to be held in conjunction 
with the sessions of the subsidiary bodies taking place in the first sessional period of 2018 
and 20193 will be based on the submission refe rred to in activity E.1 of priority area E of 
the gender action plan (see table 5)  and on the  short - and long -term impacts of the gender 
action plan, which may also be informed by the  synthesis report referred to in parag raph 5 
above, respectively;  
7. Also d ecides to review , at its twenty -fifth session , the implementation of the gender 
action plan  in the context of the review of the Lima work programme on gender4 so as to 
consider the next steps, including an assessment of th e impacts of the gender action plan;  
8. Invites  Parties and relevant organi zations to participate and engage in the 
implementation of gender -related  activities within the gender action plan, i ncluding 
enhancing the capacity of the gender focal point of the se cretariat;  
9. Takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 1, 5 and 6 above;  
10. Requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject t o the availability of financial resources . 
                                                           
 3 Decision 21/CP.22, paragraphs 11 and 12.  
 4 Decision 21/CP.22, paragraph 6.  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.1  
 15 Annex  
  Gender  action plan  
1. By d ecision 21/CP.22, paragraph 27, the Subsidiary Body for Implementation was 
requested  to develop a gender action plan (GAP) in order to support the implementation of 
gender -related decisions and mandates in the UNFCCC process, which may include priority 
areas, key activities and indicators, timelines for implementation, responsible and key 
actors and indicative resource requirements for each activity, and to further elaborate its 
review and monitoring  processes . 
2. The GAP , created under the Lima work programme on gender, seeks to advance 
women’s full, equal and meaningful participation and promote gender -responsive climate 
policy and the mainstreaming of a gender perspective in the impl ementation of the 
Convention and the work of Parties, the secretariat, U nited Nations  entities and all 
stakeholders at all levels .  
3. Gender -responsive climate policy  requires further strengthening in all activities 
concerning adaptation, mitigation and rela ted means of implementation (finance, 
technology development and transfer , and capacity -building) as well as decision -making on 
the implementation of climate policies . The GAP recognize s the need for women to be 
represented in all aspects of the UNFCCC pro cess and the  need for gender mainstreaming 
through all relevant targets and goals in activities under the Convention as an important 
contribution to increas ing their effectiveness . 
4. The GAP recognizes that gender -related action is being progressed across al l areas 
of the Convention and with respect to the Paris Agreement. Many of the activities in the 
GAP have been the subject of action by a variety of relevant organizations and will 
continue to require further action beyond the time frame of the plan.  
5. The a ctivities in the GAP vary in terms of measurability, and Parties are at various 
stages in terms of progress on this agenda. Some actions may be afforded differing degrees 
of prioritization according to the nature and scale of the climate policies being imp lemented 
and the capacities of Parties. The GAP recognizes that climate action under the Convention 
is a Party -driven process.  
Priority areas  
6. Parties, the secretariat and relevant organizations are invited to undertake the 
activities contained in the GAP , as appropriate. The GAP sets out, in five priority areas, the 
activities that will drive the achievement of its objectives . 
A. Capacity -building, knowledge -sharing and communication  
7. The GAP seeks to enhance the understanding and expertise of stakeholders  on the 
systematic integration of gender considerations and the application of such understanding 
and expertise in the thematic areas under the Convention and the Paris Agreement and in 
policies, programmes and projects on the ground.  
B. Gender balance, p articipation and women’s leadership  
8. The GAP seeks to achieve and sustain the full, equal and meaningful participation of 
women in the UNFCCC process.  
C. Coherence  
9. The GAP seeks to strengthen the integration of gender considerations within the 
work of UNFCC C bodies, the secretariat and other United Nation entities and stakeholders 
towards the consistent implementation of gender -related mandates and activities.  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.1  
16  D. Gender -responsive implementation and means of implementation  
10. The GAP aims to ensure the respect,  promotion and consideration of gender equality 
and the empowerment of women in the implementation of the Convention and the Paris 
Agreement.  
E. Monitoring and reporting  
11. The GAP seeks to improve tracking in relation to the implementation of and 
reporting o n gender -related mandates under the UNFCCC.  
Table 1  
Priority area A : capacity -building, knowledge -sharing and communication  
Activit y Responsible actors  Timeline  Deliverables  
A.1  
Through the use of such mechanisms as workshops, technical 
assistance, etc. , enhance the capacity of Parties and stakeholders 
to develop gender -responsive policies, plans and programmes on 
adaptation, mitigation, capacity -building, technology and finance  Parties, United Nations 
entities and relevant 
organizations  2018  Gender -
responsive 
climate policies, 
plans and 
programmes  
A.2 
Make a submission on the systematic integration of gender -
sensitive and participatory education, training, public awareness, 
public participation and public access to information from 
national to local lev el into all mitigation and adaptation activities 
implemented under the Convention and the Paris Agreement, 
including into the implementation of nationally determined 
contributions  and the formulation of long -term low greenhouse 
gas emission development str ategies, and invite Parties to hold a 
dialogue under the Action for Climate Empowerment agenda 
item of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation  on how Parties 
and observer organizations have promoted the systematic 
integration of gender considerations into t he above -mentioned 
issues  Parties and observer 
organizations, 
secretariat gender focal 
point, and the Paris 
Committee on 
Capacity -building  2018  Submission s and 
dialogue  
 
Table 2  
Priority area B : gender  balance, participation and women’s leadership  
Activi ty Responsible actors  Timeline  Deliverables  
B.1 
Promote travel funds as a means to support the participation of 
women in national delegations at UNFCCC sessions, including 
those from grass -roots, local and indigenous peoples 
communities from developing co untries, the least developed 
countries and small island developing States  Parties, secretariat 
and observer 
organizations  2018 –2019  Promotion of 
funds  
B.2 
Include in regular notifications to Parties at the time of 
nominations to UNFCCC bodies the latest report on the gender 
composition of the relevant body  Secretariat  2018 –2019  Updated 
information on 
gender balance 
at the time of 
nominations to 
bodies  
B.3 
Organize and conduct capacity -building training on leadership, 
negotiation, facilitation and chairin g in the context of the 
UNFCCC process in co njunction with United Nations system -
wide efforts for women  Parties, United 
Nations entities and 
relevant 
organizations   Provision of 
training  
B.4 
Cooperate in, promote, facilitate, develop and implement formal  
and non -formal education and training programmes focused on 
climate change at all levels, targeting women and youth in Parties, Unit ed 
Nations entities and 
relevant 
organizations    Training 
programmes  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.1  
 17 Activi ty Responsible actors  Timeline  Deliverables  
particular at the national, regional and local levels, including the 
exchange or secondment of personnel to train experts  
 
Table 3  
Priority area C : coherence  
Activit y Responsible actors  Timeline  Deliverables  
C.1 
At SBI 48  hold a dialogue, open to Parties and observers, with 
the chairs of UNFCCC constitute d bodies to discuss the 
outcomes of the technical paper on entry points requested in 
decision 21/CP.22, paragraph 13, and any potential 
recommendations  Secretariat  SBI 48  Dialogue  
 
C.2 
Provide capacity -building to chairs and members of UNFCCC 
constituted bodies and technical teams of the secretariat on 
how to integrate gender considerations into their respective 
areas of work and on meeting the goal of gender balance  Secretariat gender 
team, United Nations 
entities, other 
stakeholders and 
relevant 
organiza tions    Chairs and 
members of 
UNFCCC 
constituted bodies 
supporting the 
integration of 
gender into their 
work  
Provision of 
capacity -building  
C.3 
Share information on efforts made to support the 
implementation of activities to enhance synergies with other 
United Nations entities and processes, paying particular 
attention to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development  United Nations 
entities and other 
relevant 
organizations  During 
sessions 
of the 
COP  Promotion of 
efforts  
Abbreviations : COP = Conference of th e Parties, SBI = Subsidiary Body for Implementation.  
Table 4  
Priority area D : gender -responsive i mplementation and means of i mplementation  
Activit y Responsible  actors  Timeline  Deliverables  
D.1 
Invite the Standing Committee on Finance to host a dialogue o n 
the implementation of its commitment to integrate gender 
considerations into its work, emphasizing the relevance of 
gender -responsive access to finance in the implementation of 
climate action  Standing Committee on 
Finance   2019  Dialogue  
D.2 
In cooperati on with the UNEP DTU Partnershipa and the 
Climate Technology Centre and Network, invite interested 
stakeholders to share information on the incorporation of 
gender into technology needs assessments during Gender Day  Parties, UNEP DTU 
Partnership, Climate 
Technology Centre and 
Network, other relevant 
stakeholders and 
secretariat   2018 –2019  Submission s 
D.3 
Strengthen the capacity of gender mechanisms, including for 
parliamentarians, the International Parliamentary Union, 
commissions, funding ministries, non -governmental 
organizations and civil society organizations, for the integration 
of gender -responsive budgeting into climate finance, access 
and delivery through training, expert workshops, technical 
papers and tools  Parties, United Nations 
entities, the Fi nancial 
Mechanism and other 
stakeholders   2018  Capacity -
building  
a The partnership, formerly known as the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) Risoe Centre, operates under a 
tripartite agreement between Denmark’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Te chnical University of Denmark (DTU) and UNEP.  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.1  
18  Table 5  
Priority area E : monitoring and reporting  
Activit y Responsible actors  Timeline  Deliverables  
E.1 
Make a submission on the following, including sex -
disaggregated data and gender analysis, where applicabl e: 
(a) Information on the differentiated impacts of climate 
change on women and men, with special attention paid to 
local communities and indigenous peoples;  
(b) Integration of gender considerations into adaptation, 
mitigation, capacity -building, Action for Climat e 
Empowerment, technology and finance policies, plans and 
actions;  
(c) Policies and plans for and progress made in enhancing 
gender balance in national climate delegations  Parties and observer 
organizations  2018  Submission  
E.2 
Prepare a synthesis report on th e submissions received under 
activity E.1 Secretariat  2019  Synthesis report  
E.3 
Update the report on how the Climate Technology Centre and 
Network, in executing its modalities and procedures, working 
in conjunction with the Technology Executive Committee (to 
ensure coherence and synergy within the Technology 
Mechanism),  has contributed to the aim of accelerating the 
development and transfer of technology, taking into account 
gender considerations  Climate Technology 
Centre and Network  
and Technology 
Executi ve Committee    Report, with 
recommendations  
E.4 
Encourage knowledge exchange activities among the 
secretariat staff across all thematic areas to update on work 
related to gender  Secretariat, in 
cooperation with 
United Nations entities, 
including the Unite d 
Nations Entity for 
Gender Equality and 
the Empowerment of 
Women    Report on the 
knowledge 
exchange  
Account of 
exchange 
activities  
 
12th plenary meeting  
17 November 2017  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.1  
 19   Decision 4/CP.23  
  Koronivia joint work on agriculture  
The Conference of the Part ies, 
Recalling  decision 2/CP.17 , particularly paragraphs 75 –77, 
Having considered the reports to the Subsidiary Body for Scientific an d 
Technological Advice on the five in -session workshops on issues related to agriculture,1 
1. Requests  the Subsidiary Body fo r Scientific and Technological Advice and the 
Subsidiary Body for Implementation to jointly address issues related to agriculture, 
including through workshops and expert meetings, working with constituted bodies under 
the Convention and taking into conside ration the vulnerabilities of agriculture to climate 
change and approaches to addressing food security;  
2. Invites  Parties and observers to submit,2 by 31 March 2018, their views on elements 
to be included in the work referred to in paragraph 1 above for con sideration at the forty -
eighth session s of the subsidiary bodies (April –May 2018), starting with but not limited to 
the following:  
(a) Modalities for implementation of the outcomes of the five in -session 
workshops on issues related to agriculture and other fut ure topics that may arise from this 
work;  
(b) Methods and approaches for assessing adaptation, adaptation co -benefits and 
resilience;  
(c) Improved soil carbon, soil health and soil fertility under grassland and 
cropland as well as integrated systems, including wat er management;  
(d) Improved nutrient use and manure management towards sustainable and 
resilient agricultural systems;  
(e) Improved livestock management systems;  
(f) Socioeconomic and food security dimensions of climate change in the 
agricultural sector ; 
3. Requests  that any actions of the secretariat resulting from the provisions in 
paragraph  1 above be undertaken subject to the availability of financial resources;  
4. Also r equests  the subsidiary bodies to report to the Conference of the Parties on the 
progress and outcomes  of the work referred to in paragraph 1 above at its twenty -sixth 
session (November 2020) . 
12th plenary meeting  
17 November 2017
                                                           
 1 FCCC/SBSTA/2014/INF.2 , FCCC /SBSTA/2015/INF.6 , FCCC/SBSTA/2015/INF.7 , 
FCCC/SBSTA/2016/INF.5  and FCCC/SBSTA/2016/INF.6 .  
 2 Views should be submitted via the submissi on portal at 
http://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionportal/Pages/Home.aspx . FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.1  
20    Decision 5/CP.23  
  Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage 
associated with Climate Change Impacts  
 The Conference of the Parties , 
 Recalling  decisions 3/CP.18, 2/CP.19, 2/CP.20, 1/CP.21, 2/CP.21, 3/CP.22 and 
4/CP.22 and the Paris Agreement, particularly Article 8,  
 Noting the concerns raised by Parties on the increasing frequency and severity of 
climate -related disast ers that have affected many countries, including heatwaves, drought, 
floods, tropical cyclones, dust storms and other extreme weather events, as well as the 
increasing impacts associated with slow onset events, and the urgent need to avert, 
minimize and ad dress these impacts through comprehensive risk management approaches , 
inter alia, through early warning systems, measures to enhance recovery and rehabilitation 
and build back and forward better, social protection instruments, including social safety 
nets, and transformational approaches,  
1. Welcomes the report of the Executive Committee of the Warsaw International 
Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts;1 
2. Also welcomes the progress made by the Executive Committee in implementing i ts 
initial two -year workplan and operationalizing the  Fiji Clearing House for Risk Transfer 
and the task force on displacement pursuant to decision 1/CP.21, paragraphs 48 and 49;  
3. Expresses its appreciation  to Parties, bodies and organizations for supportin g the 
work of the Executive Committee, including through partnerships and collaboration, and 
encourages  them to enhance their efforts in this regard;  
4. Notes  the flexible five -year rolling workplan of the Executive Committee, which 
enables the timely conside ration of cross -cutting issues and current, urgent and emerging 
needs;  
5. Also notes that the  Executive Committee will evaluate progress made towards 
implementing its five -year rolling workplan in 2020 and at regular intervals at subsequent 
meetings of the E xecutive Committee;  
6. Requests  the Executive Committee to include in its annual reports, as appropriate, 
more detailed information on the work undertaken by its expert groups, subcommittees, 
panels, thematic advisory groups and task -focused ad hoc working gr oups on, to the extent 
possible, issues of relevance to the regional and national context as identified by Parties in 
their submissions;2 
7. Welcomes  the plan of the task force on displacement referred to in paragraph 2 
above to convene a meeting in May 2018 on all areas of its work, which will include wide 
consultations with stakeholders to ensure regional coverage;  
8. Invites  the task force on displacement referred to in paragraph 2 above to take into 
consideration both cross -border and internal displacement, i n accordance with its mandate, 
when developing recommendations for integrated approaches to averting, minimizing and 
addressing displacement related to the adverse impacts of climate change;3 
9. Requests  the secretariat, under the guidance of the Executive Co mmittee and the 
Chair of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation, to organize, in conjunction with the 
                                                           
 1 FCCC/SB/2017/1 and Add.1.  
 2 In response to the invitation of the Conference of the Parties in deci sion 3/CP.22, paragraph 5. The 
submissions are available at http://unfccc.int/10064 .  
 3 Decision 1/CP.21, para graph 49.  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.1  
 21 forty -eighth sessions of the subsidiary bodies (April –May 2018), an expert dialogue4 to 
explore a wide range of information, inputs and views on ways for facilitating the 
mobilization and securing of expertise, and enhancement of support, including finance, 
technology and capacity -building, for averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage 
associated with the adverse effects of climate change, includi ng extreme weather events 
and slow onset events, with a view to informing the preparation of the technical paper 
referred to in paragraph 2(f) of decision 4/CP.22;  
10. Invites  Parties, observers and other stakeholders to submit,5 by 15 February 2018, 
their vi ews in the context of activity 1(a) of strategic workstream (e) of the five -year rolling 
workplan of the Executive Committee;  
11. Requests  the secretariat to prepare a report on the expert dialogue referred to in 
paragraph 9 above for consideration by the Exec utive Committee at its second meeting in 
2018;  
12. Invites  Parties, relevant organizations and other stakeholders to submit,6 by 1 
February 2019, their views and inputs on possible elements to be included in the terms of 
reference for the review of the Warsaw International Mechanism referred to in decision 
4/CP.22, paragraph 2(d), taking into account the outcomes of the implementation of the 
work of the Executive Committee, for consideration by the subsidiary bodies at their 
sessions to be held in June 2019;  
13. Encourages  Parties to actively engage in the work and to disseminate, promote and 
make use of the products of the Warsaw International Mechanism and its Executive 
Committee, including by:  
(a) Establishing a loss and damage contact point through their respective  
UNFCCC national focal point referred to in decision 4/CP.22, paragraph 4(d);  
(b) Participating in the meetings of the Executive Committee as observers, 
recognizing the constraints of time and resources;   
(c) Incorporating or continuing to incorporate the consider ation of extreme 
weather events and slow onset events, non -economic losses, climate change impacts on 
human mobility, including migration, displacement and planned relocation, and 
comprehensive risk management into relevant policy, planning and action, as appropriate, 
and encouraging relevant bilateral and multilateral entities to support such efforts;  
14. Reiterates  its invitation to constituted bodies under the Convention, as appropriate, 
to continue to integrate into their work efforts to avert, minimize and  address loss and 
damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change in developing countries that 
are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change, vulnerable populations 
and the ecosystems that they depend on;  
15. Invites  United  Nations and other relevant institutions, specialized agencies and other 
entities, the research community, civil society and the private sector, as appropriate, to 
strengthen cooperation and collaboration, including through partnerships, with the 
Executive  Committee on topics related to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and 
damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change, including extreme weather 
events and slow onset events;  
16. Also invites  relevant research institutions and organization s to share, as appropriate, 
their data and key findings on slow onset events with the Executive Committee, including 
at events organized by the Executive Committee, with a view to enhancing knowledge and 
understanding of slow onset events;   
17. Reaffirms  that the Executive Committee may enhance its effectiveness by 
prioritizing activities in thematic areas for further work;  
                                                           
 4 To be known as the Suva expert dialogue.  
 5 Views should be submitted via the submission po rtal at 
http://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionportal/Pages/Home.aspx .  
 6 As footnote 5 above.  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.1  
22  18. Encourages  the Executive Committee to seek further ways to enhance its 
responsiveness, effectiveness and performance by improving the plann ing and organization 
of its work, including in the context of the operations of its expert groups, subcommittees, 
panels, thematic advisory groups and task -focused ad hoc working groups, such as 
appropriate balanced representation, expertise of membership in accordance with the tasks, 
and the duration of the mandates of those expert groups, subcommittees, panels, thematic 
advisory groups and task -focused ad hoc working groups;  
19. Requests  the Executive Committee, in accordance with its mandate7 and the report 
referred to in paragraph 1 above:  
(a) To consider, when  updating its five -year rolling workplan, cross -cutting 
issues and current, urgent and emerging needs related to extreme weather events and slow 
onset events, including but not limited to drought and flood s, in developing countries that 
are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change, vulnerable populations 
and the ecosystems that they depend on;  
(b) To enhance  its efforts in ensuring that information generated from its work is 
converted i nto user -friendly products, such as tools and methods, and material for training 
modules, with a view to enhancing the coherence and effectiveness of relevant efforts 
undertaken at the regional and national level, as appropriate;  
(c) To consider, through colla boration and partnerships, the development and the 
dissemination at all levels of user -friendly information and communication products on 
averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage issues of relevance to the regional 
and national context;  
20. Encoura ges the Executive Committee to collaborate with other bodies under the 
Convention and the Paris Agreement within the scope of their respective mandates and to 
continue considering ways of facilitating the mobilization and securing of expertise, and the 
enhancement of support, including finance, technology and capacity -building, including its 
work on enhancing action and support, and when considering the composition and 
mandates of its expert groups and those it may establish;  
21. Reiterates its encouragement to  Parties to make available sufficient resources for the 
successful and timely implementation of the work of the Executive Committee and its 
expert groups, subcommittees, panels, thematic advisory groups and task -focused ad hoc 
working groups;  
22. Invites  relevant organizations, as appropriate, to further mobilize resources, 
including expertise and tools, through a wide variety of instruments, channels and 
partnerships, for actions related to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage 
associated with c limate change impacts;  
23. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to  in paragraphs 4 –20 above;  
24. Requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
12th plenary meeting  
17 November 2017  
                                                           
 7 Decision 2/CP.19, paragraph s 2 and 5.  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.1  
 23   Decision 6/CP.23  
  Long -term climate finance  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling Articles 4 and 11 of the Convention,  
Also recalling  decisions 1/CP.16, paragra phs 2, 4 and 97 –101, 1/CP.17, 2/CP.17, 
paragraphs 126 –132, 4/CP.18, 3/CP.19, 5/CP.20, 1/CP.21, 5/CP.21 and 7/CP.22,  
1. Welcomes with appreciation  the continued progress of developed country Parties 
towards reaching the goal of jointly mobilizing USD 100 bill ion annually by 2020 , in the 
context of meaningful mitigation actions and transparency on implementation, in 
accordance with decision 1/CP.16 ;  
2. Recalls  the commitment of developed country Parties, in the context of meaningful 
mitigation actions and transpa rency on implementation, to a goal of mobilizing jointly USD 
100 billion per year by 2020 to address the needs of developing countries, in accordance 
with decision 1/CP.16, and urges  developed country Parties to continue to scale up 
mobilized climate finan ce towards this goal;  
3. Urges  developed country Parties to continue their efforts to channel a substantial 
share of public climate funds to adaptation activities and to strive to achieve a greater 
balance between finance for mitigation and finance for adapt ation, recognizing the 
importance of adaptation finance and the need for public and grant -based resources for 
adaptation;  
4. Welcomes  the biennial submissions  received to date from developed country Parties 
on updated strategies and approaches for scaling up  climate finance from 2016 to 2020 in 
accordance with decision 3/CP.19, paragraph 10, and urges  those developed country Parties 
that have not yet done so  to submit this information;  
5. Takes note of the compilation and synthesis  of the biennial submissions r eferred to 
in paragraph 4 above;1  
6. Welcomes  the progress of Parties in their efforts to strengthen their domestic 
enabling environments in order to attract climate finance , and  requests  Parties to continue 
to enhance their enabling environments  and policy frameworks  to facilitate the mobilization 
and effective deployment of climate finance, in a ccordance with decision 3/CP.19;  
7. Also r equests  developed country Parties to prepare their next round of updated 
biennial submissions on strategies and approaches for  scaling up climate finance for the 
period 2018 –2020 in line with decisions 3/CP.19, paragraph 10, and 5/CP.20, paragraph 10,  
with a view to updating information available on a pathway towards the goal of jointly 
mobilizing USD 100 billion per year by 2020 ;  
8. Further r equests  the secretariat to prepare a compilation and synthesis of the 
biennial submissions referred to in paragraph 7 above in accordance with decisions 3/CP.19 
and 7/CP.22, paragraph 15;  
9. Welcomes  with appreciation  the submission of first and s econd biennial update 
reports by developing country Parties to date , and encourages  developing country Parties 
that have not already done so to submit their biennial update reports as soon as possible, 
recalling decision 2/CP.17, paragraph 41(a), which sta tes that, consistent with their 
capabilities and the level of support provided for reporting, they should submit their first 
biennial update reports by December 2014, noting that the least developed country Parties 
and small island developing States may su bmit biennial update reports at their discretion;   
                                                           
 1 FCCC/CP/2017/INF .1. FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.1  
24  10. Requests  the secretariat, in collaboration with the operating entities of the Financial 
Mechanism, U nited Nations  agencies and bilateral, regional and other multilateral channels , 
to explore ways and means  to assist developing country Parties in assessing their needs and 
priorities, in a country -driven manner, including technological and capacity -building needs, 
and in translating climate finance needs into action ;  
11. Takes note with appreciation  of the note by the President of the twenty -second 
session of the Conference of the Parties on the second biennial high -level ministerial 
dialogue on climate finance,2 and particularly the key messages contained therein;3  
12. Also takes n ote with appreciation  of the summa ry report on the 2017 in -session 
workshop on long -term climate finance,4 and the key findings and messages  contained 
therein, including the summaries of the various segments,  and the key areas of action from 
this workshop , and invites  Parties and relevant institutions to consider the key messages;5 
13. Recalls  that, in accordance with decision 7/CP.22 , the next in -session workshop on 
long-term climate finance , to be held in  2018 , will, with a view to scaling up climate 
finance for mitigation and adaptation, focus on expe rience s and lessons learned from  
articulating and translating needs identified in country -driven processes into projects and 
programmes , roles of policies and enabling environments for mitigation and adaptation 
finance, a nd facilitating enhanced access;  
14. Notes  that the 2018 in -session workshop should further build on the key findings 
and messages from the 2017 in -session workshop on long -term climate finance and the 
summary report thereon;  
15. Requests  the secretariat to organize the in -session works hop referred to in paragraph 
13 above and to prepare a summary report on the workshop for consideration by the 
Conference of the Parties at its twenty -fourth session (December 2018);  
16. Recalls  that, in line with decision 7/CP.22, paragraph 17, the third hig h-level 
ministerial dialogue on climate finance, to be convened in accordance with decision 
3/CP.19, will be informed by the reports on the in -session workshops on long -term climate 
finance and the 2018 biennial assessment and overview of climate finance f lows;  
17. Invites  the Presidency of the Conference of the Parties,  in organizing the high -level 
ministerial dialogue referred to in paragraph 16 above, to consider a focus on the topic of 
access to climate finance.  
14th plenary meeting  
18 November 2017
                                                           
 2 FCCC/CP/2017/8 . 
 3 FCCC/CP/2017/8, paragraphs 6 –11. 
 4 FCCC/CP/2017/4.  
 5 FCCC/CP/2017/4, paragraph 24.  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.1  
 25   Deci sion 7/CP.23  
  Report of the Standing Committee on Finance  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling Articles 4 and 11 of the Convention,  
Also recalling  decision 1/CP.16, paragraph 112, and  decision  2/CP.17, paragraphs 
120 and 121, as well as decisions 5/C P.18, 7/CP.19, 6/CP.20, 6/CP.21 and 8/CP.22,  
1. Welcomes with appreciation  the report of the Standing Committee on Finance to the 
Conference of the Parties at its twenty -third session,1 taking note of the recommendations 
contained therein;  
2. Endorses  the upda ted workplan of the Standing Committee on Finance for 2018;2  
3. Expresses its appreciation  to the Governments of Finland and Norway and the 
European Commission for the financial contributions to support the work of the Standing 
Committee on Finance;  
4. Welcome s the 2017 forum of the Standing Committee on Finance on the topic of 
mobilizing finance for climate -resilient infrastructure, takes note  of the summary report on 
the 2017 forum, including the recommendations and follow -up activities of the Standing 
Commit tee on Finance,3 invites  the Standing Committee on Finance to follow up on the 
recommendations in its 2018 workplan, and invites  Parties and relevant organizations to 
incorporate the recommendations into their work as appropriate;  
5. Expresses its gratitude  to the Governments of Morocco and the Netherlands, the 
Union for the Mediterranean and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
for their support in ensuring the success of the 2017 forum;  
6. Notes the outcome of discussions on the 2018 biennial assessment and overview of 
climate finance flows, including the outline of the technical report and the summary and 
recommendations on the 2018 biennial assessment and overview of climate finance flows, 
as well as an indicative timeline;4  
7. Also notes  that the Standing Committee on Finance extended the two -year workplan 
on the measurement, reporting and verification of support beyond the biennial assessment, 
and requests  the Standing Committee on Finance to enhance its work on the measurement, 
reporting and verification of support beyond the biennial assessment, acknowledging the 
progress made by the Standing Committee on Finance and noting the need to avoid 
duplication of ongoing work under the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological 
Advice and the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris Agreement;  
8. Requests  the Standing Committee on Finance, in fulfilling its function with regard to 
the measurement, reporting and verification of support, and in the context of its extended 
workplan, to continue its cooperat ion with relevant stakeholders and experts;  
9. Invites  the Standing Committee on Finance to conclude its deliberations on the topic 
of its next forum at the latest at its first meeting in 2018;  
10. Welcomes  the offer of the Republic of Korea to host a 2018 forum  of the Standing 
Committee on Finance;  
11. Also welcomes  the appointment of focal points of the Standing Committee on 
Finance to liaise with the other constituted bodies under the Convention, and requests  the 
                                                           
 1 FCCC/CP/2017/9.  
 2 FCCC/CP/2017 /9, annex VIII.  
 3 FCCC/CP/2017/9, annex V.  
 4 FCCC/CP/2017/9, annex VI.  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.1  
26  Standing Committee on Finance to continue to provid e information on the appointment in 
its annual reports to the Conference of the Parties;  
12. Reiterates that the Standing Committee on Finance will integrate financing for 
forest -related considerations into its 2018 workplan, where appropriate, and continue w ork 
on this matter in the context of the overall issue of improving coherence and coordination 
in the delivery of climate change financing, taking into account all relevant decisions on 
forests;5 
13. Requests the Standing Committee on Finance to report to the Conference of the 
Parties at its twenty -fourth session (December 2018) on the progress made in the 
implementation of its workplan;  
14. Also requests  the Standing Committee on Finance to consider the guidance provided 
to it in other relevant decisions of the C onference of the Parties.  
14th plenary meeting  
18 November 2017
                                                           
 5 FCCC/CP/2017/9, annex VIII, page 69 . FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.1  
 27   Decision 8/CP.23  
  Review of the functions of the Standing Committee on 
Finance  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  decisions 1/CP.16, paragraph 112, and 9/CP.22,   
1. Welcomes  with apprec iation  the input to the review of the functions of the Standing 
Committee on Finance, including information provided by Parties, the Standing Committee 
on Finance, constituted bodies under the Convention and external stakeholders involved in 
the activities  of the Standing Committee on Finance;  
2. Takes note  with appreciation  of the updated and expanded overview of the mandates 
provided by the Conference of the Parties to the Standing Committee on Finance,1 and the 
progress made to date by the Standing Committ ee on Finance in fulfilling these mandates, 
as well as the self -assessment report of the Standing Committee on Finance and the 
recommendations contained therein;2  
3. Encourages  Parties and the Standing Committee on Finance to consider the 
recommendations ref erred to in paragraph 2 above;  
4. Takes note  of the technical paper on the review of the functions of the Standing 
Committee on Finance;3  
5. Acknowledges  the contributions and positive performance of the Standing 
Committee on Finance in assisting, informing an d advancing the work of the Conference of 
the Parties in exercising its function in relation to the Financial Mechanism;  
6. Requests  the Standing Committee on Finance to continue to provide and enhance the 
dissemination and utilization of specific and target ed outputs and recommendations in order 
to effectively advance the work of the Conference of the Parties;  
7. Invites  Parties and relevant stakeholders to utilize the outputs of the Standing 
Committee on Finance;  
8. Encourages  the Standing Committee on Finance to prioritize specific areas of work 
in the light of its workload in a given year , and emphasizes  the need to continue to enhance 
all the functions of the Standing Committee on Finance, including to take into consideration 
its mandate to serve the Paris Ag reement in line with decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 63;  
9. Also encourages  Parties and other constituted bodies under the Convention to 
continue to provide submissions for the preparation of draft decisions on guidance to the 
operating entities of the Financial Mechanism, based on the reports of the operating 
entities, in a timely manner to the Standing Committee on Finance;  
10. Recognizes  the need to avoid duplication of climate finance related work across the 
different subsidiary and constituted bodies, while resp ecting the mandates and 
competencies of the different bodies;  
11. Requests  the Standing Committee on Finance to further refine its approach to 
maintaining linkages with the subsidiary and constituted bodies according to resources 
available and in the context o f its existing working modalities;  
                                                           
 1 See 
http://www4.unfccc.int/Submissions/Lists/OSPSubmissionUpload/39_304_131359396103493098 -
SCF%20submission%20SBI%2046.pdf .  
 2 FCCC/CP/ 2017/9, annex VII.  
 3 FCCC/TP/2017/4.  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.1  
28  12. Also requests  the Standing Committee on Finance to ensure the value added  of its 
forum when deciding on the topic of each forum, to provide clear recommendations to the 
Conference of the Parties, as appropriate, regarding  follow -up actions on the forum, and to 
enhance the dissemination, use and ownership of the accumulated knowledge and expertise 
gathered at the forum, and invites  other bodies and external organizations to take into 
consideration the outputs of the forum;  
13. Acknowledges  the transparency of the proceedings and decision -making processes of 
the Standing Committee on Finance, including through the webcasting of its meetings and 
the timely publication of its reports to the Conference of the Parties;  
14. Requests  the Standing Committee on Finance to further strengthen its stakeholder 
engagement;  
15. Decides to continue its deliberations on ways to enhance the participation of 
members of the Standing Committee on Finance, acknowledging the need to ensure the full 
particip ation and contribution of all constituencies in the meetings of the Standing 
Committee on Finance and the continuity of the work of the Standing Committee on 
Finance;  
16. Requests the Standing Committee on Finance  to provide options for the 
enhancement of the participation of members and to report back to the Conference of the 
Parties at its twenty -fourth session (December 2018);  
17. Recognizes that there is a need for the Standing Committee on Finance to improve 
some of its in -session and intersessional working mo dalities with the aim of further 
enhancing its efficiency and effectiveness, ensuring the inclusiveness and transparency of 
its proceedings;  
18. Also recognizes  the need to consider the existing workplan of the Standing 
Committee on Finance, and in particular its workload, when providing strategic guidance to 
the Standing Committee on Finance;  
19. Decides  to agree on the timeline for the second review of the functions of the 
Standing Committee on Finance at its twenty -fifth session (November 2019) at the latest.  
14th plenary meeting  
18 November 2017FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.1  
 29   Decision 9/CP.23  
  Report of the Green Climate Fund to the Conference of the 
Parties and guidance to the Green Climate Fund  
The Conference of the Parties , 
1. Welcomes  the report of the Green Climate Fund to the Conferenc e of the Parties,1 
including the list of actions taken by the Board of the Green Climate Fund (hereinafter 
referred to as the Board) in response to the guidance received from the Conference of the 
Parties;  
2. Notes with appreciation  the significant scaling -up of the operations of the Green 
Climate Fund in 2017, including:  
(a) The expansion of its portfolio to include: (1) USD 41.8 million to support 
130 requests in 92 countries through the Readiness and Preparatory Support Programme, 
two thirds of which are in t he least developed countries, small island developing States and 
African States; and (2) USD 2.65 billion to support 54 projects and programmes in 73 
countries;  
(b) Improvements to the initial project approval process, including ongoing 
mandates to address pol icy matters related to the approval of projects;  
(c) An increase in the number of accredited entities, particularly direct access 
entities;  
(d) The availability of additional financial resources for the Readiness and 
Preparatory Support Programme, including for the formulation of national adaptation plans 
and/or other national adaptation planning processes;  
(e) The decision of the Board to initiate an independent review of the Readiness 
and Preparatory Support Programme;2  
(f) The decision to allocate USD 500 million fo r a results -based payments pilot 
programme for activities referred to in decision 1/CP.16, paragraph 70;3 
(g) The decision of the Board to develop the terms of reference for a climate 
technology incubator and accelerator -focused request for proposals, and the request of the 
Board for continued collaboration with the Technology Executive Committee and the 
Climate Technology Centre and Network;4  
(h) The issuance of a request for proposals to the private sector for mobilizing 
funds at scale;  
(i) The framework on complem entarity and coherence and the organization of 
the first annual dialogue with climate finance delivery channels;  
(j) The approval of the Board’s workplan for 2018;  
3. Encourages  the Board to ensure that the post -approval process facilitates the timely 
disbursemen t of approved funding;  
4. Notes  that accreditation is pending for a significant number of entities;  
5. Welcomes  the Board’s decision to trigger the review of the accreditation framework 
and its fit -for-purpose approach,5 and urges  the Board to swiftly adopt and implement the 
                                                           
 1 FCCC/CP/2017/5 and Add.1.  
 2 Green Climate Fund Board decision B.15/04.  
 3 Green Climate Fund Board decision B.18/07.  
 4 Green Climate Fund Board decision B.18/03.  
 5 Green Climate Fund Board decision B.18/04.  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.1  
30  revised framework with a view to simplifying and facilitating access to the Green Climate 
Fund, including for direct access entities and private sector actors;  
6. Notes with concern  the challenges in accessing financial resources for climate act ion 
in developing country Parties, especially in relation to funding for adaptation;  
7. Requests  the Board to ensure that all developing country Parties have access to all 
the financial instruments available through the Green Climate Fund, in line with the 
eligibility criteria referred to in the governing instrument and relevant decisions of the 
Conference of the Parties and to ensure application of the agreed policies of the Green 
Climate Fund;  
8. Confirms  that the Green Climate Fund will finance agreed full and  agreed 
incremental costs to enable and support enhanced action by developing countries to tackle 
climate change in line with the relevant provisions in the governing instrument of the Green 
Climate Fund;  
9. Welcomes  the launch of the Simplified Approval Proc ess Pilot Scheme  and urges  its 
implementation in line with Green Climate Fund Board decision B.18/06;  
10. Encourages  the Board to continue improving the process to review and approve 
readiness and preparatory support requests, including requests for support to  prepare 
national adaptation plans and voluntary adaptation planning processes, including timely 
disbursement for approved programmes;  
11. Invites  the Board to consider ways to improve the availability of information on 
accessing funding from the Green Climat e Fund, as appropriate;  
12. Takes note  of the biennial report on the status of privileges and immunities6 and 
expresses  concern  with the low level of bilateral arrangements concluded between the 
Green Climate Fund and Parties;  
13. Encourages  Parties to enter into  agreements to grant the privileges and immunities 
needed for the effective and efficient operationalization of the Green Climate Fund in 
accordance with national legislation and circumstances and Board decision B.10/12, as 
appropriate;  
14. Also e ncourages  the Board to intensify its efforts to ensure that the Green Climate 
Fund will enjoy such privileges and immunities as are necessary for the fulfilment of its 
purposes;  
15. Decides  to continue its consideration of the Board’s request as reflected in Green 
Climate Fund Board decision B.08/24 and the procedure agreed in decision 7/CP.20;  
16. Urges  the Board to ensure the continuation of trustee services and to conclude its 
deliberations on the selection of a trustee, including the terms of reference for the trustee, in 
accordance with previous decisions of the Conference of the Parties and the Board;  
17. Encourages  the Board to launch the first replenishment process of the Green 
Climate Fund in accordance with previous decisions of the Conference of the Parties and 
the Board;  
18. Also e ncourages  the Board to include in its annual report to the Conference of the 
Parties information on projects approved by the Board that support the innovation and/or 
scaling -up of climate technologies with a view to informing the Technology Mechanis m as 
it undertakes further work on climate technology innovation;  
19. Invites  Parties to submit their views and recommendations on elements to be taken 
into account in developing guidance for the Board of the Green Climate Fund7 no later than 
                                                           
 6 Annex III to the report of the Green Climate Fund contained in the annex to document 
FCCC/CP/2017/5 . 
 7 Views should be submitted via the submission portal at 
http://www4.unfccc.in t/sites/submissionportal/Pages/Home.aspx .  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.1  
 31 10 weeks prior t o the twenty -fourth session of the Conference of the Parties (December 
2018);  
20. Requests  the Standing Committee on Finance to take into consideration the 
submissions referred to in paragraph 19 above when providing its draft guidance for the 
Board of the Gr een Climate Fund for consideration by the Conference of the Parties;  
21. Also requests  the Green Climate Fund to include in its annual report to the 
Conference of the Parties information on the steps that it has taken to implement the 
guidance provided in this  decision.  
14th plenary meeting  
18 November 2017FCCC/C P/2017/11/Add.1  
32    Decision 10/CP.23  
  Report of the Global Environment Facility to the Conference 
of the Parties and guidance to the Global Environment 
Facility  
 The Conference of the Parties , 
 Recalling decision 11/CP.22,   
 Noting  the importance of providing timely responses to the requests of developing 
country Parties,  
1. Notes  the report of the Global Environment Facility to the Conference of the Parties1 
and the responses of the Global Environment Facility to the guidance from the Conference 
of the Parties;  
2. Welcomes  the decision of the Global  Environment Facility Council to begin the 
process of updating its minimum agency standards and fiduciary policies;2  
3. Also welcomes  the Global  Environment Facility Council’s approval of  the Global 
Environment Facility’s policy on ethics and conflict of interest;3 
4. Reiterates  its call in decision  11/CP.22, paragraph 2,  to ensure a robust seventh 
replenishment  in order to assist in providing adequate and predictable funding, taking into 
consideration the Paris Agreement as well as the request of the Conference of the Parties to 
the Global Environment Facility contained in decision 11/CP.22, paragraph 3;  
5. Requests  the Global Environment Facility to enhance the consultation process with 
develop ing country Parties and other stakeholders in the context of the Global Environment 
Facility replenishment process;  
6. Noting the importance of the existing allocation for climate change, requests  the 
Global Environment Facility to further consider the needs  and priorities of developing 
countries in the allocation for the climate change focal area in its seventh replenishment 
period ; 
7. Requests  the Global Environment Facility to continue implementing in its seventh 
replenishment period its established policies for grants and concessional funding, in support 
of developing country Parties, in line with the provisions of the Convention, relevant 
decisions of the Conference of the Parties and the Instrument for the Establishment of  the 
Restructured  Global Environmen t Facility;  
8. Welcomes  the operationalization of the Capacity -building Initiative for Transparency 
and projects approved during the reporting period, and requests the Global Environment 
Facility to provide adequate support to assist developing country Partie s, in line with 
decision 1/CP.21 , paragraph 86;  
9. Notes  the Global Environment Facility Council decision GEF/C.50/074 and its 
conclusions, and invites the Global Environment Facility to further consider ways to 
improve its access modalities for developing c ountry Parties, including small island 
developing States and the least developed countries ; 
                                                           
 1 FCCC/CP/2017/7.  
 2 See the j oint summary of the chairs  of the 52nd Global Environment Facility Council meeting, 
paragraphs 24 and 25. Available at https://www.thegef.org/sites/default/files/council -meeting -
documents/EN_GEF.C.52_Joint_Summary_of_the_Chairs.pdf .  
 3 See paragraph 7 of the joint summary referred to in footnote 2 above.  
 4 Titled “ Future Directions on Accreditation – A Follow -Up”. FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.1  
 33 10. Requests  the Global Environment Facility, as appropriate, to ensure that its policies 
and procedures related to the consideration and review of funding proposals be  duly 
followed in an efficient manner;  
11. Encourages  the Global Environment Facility  to further enhance engagement with 
the private sector, including in its technology projects;  
12. Invites  the Global Environment Facility to allocate provisions in the climate cha nge 
focal area of its seventh replenishment for supporting developing country Parties in 
undertaking technology needs assessments and piloting priority technology projects to 
foster innovation and investment;  
13. Also invites  the Global Environment Facility to  include information in its reports to 
the Conference of the Parties on:  
(a) The collaboration between the Global Environment Facility focal points and 
the national designated entities for technology development and transfer, as communicated 
by the Climate Tec hnology Centre and Network to the Global Environment Facility;5 
(b) Whether and how Parties have used their System for Transparent Allocation 
of Resources allocation for piloting the implementation of the technology  needs assessment 
results;6 
14. Further i nvites Parties to submit via the submission portal,7 no later than 10 weeks 
prior to the twenty -fourth session of the Conference of the Parties (December 2018), their 
views and recommendations on the elements to be taken into account in developing 
guidance for the  Global Environment Facility ;  
15. Requests  the Standing Committee on Finance to take into consideration the 
submissions referred to in paragraph 14 above when providing its draft guidance for the 
Global Environment Facility  for consideration by the Conference  of the Parties;  
16. Also requests  the Global Environment Facility  to include in its annual report to the 
Conference of the Parties information on the steps that it has taken to implement the 
guidance provided in this decision.   
14th plenary meeting  
18 Novembe r 2017
                                                           
 5 FCCC/SBI/2016/20, paragraph 84.  
 6 FCCC/SBI/2016/20, paragraph 85.  
 7 http://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionport al/Pages/Home.aspx .  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.1  
34    Decision 11/CP .23 
  Sixth review of the Financial Mechanism  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  decision 12/CP.22 , 
1. Notes the expert input of the Standing Committee on Finance to the sixth review of 
the Financial Mechanism;1 
2. Takes note  of the efforts made by the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism 
to enhance complementarity and coherence between them and between the operating 
entities and other sources of investment and financial flows;  
3. Requests the operating entities of the Financial  Mechanism to continue to enhance 
complementarity  and coherence ; 
4. Decides to initiate the seventh review of the Financial Mechanism at the twenty -
sixth session of the Conference of the Parties (November 2020)  in accordance with the 
criteria in the updated g uidelines contained in the annex to decision 12/CP.22, or as th ose 
guidelines may be subsequently amended;  
5. Requests the Standing Committee on Finance to provide expert input to the seventh 
review of the Financial Mechanism in 2021  with a view to the review  being completed by 
the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -seventh session  (November 2021).   
14th plenary meeting  
18 November 2017
                                                           
 1 FCCC/CP/2017/9, annex II.  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.1  
 35   Decision 12/CP.23  
  Process to identify the information to be provided by Parties 
in accordance with Article 9, paragr aph 5, of the Paris 
Agreement  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  Article  9, paragraphs 1, 3 and 5, of the Paris Agreement,  
Also recalling  decision s 1/CP.21, paragraph 55, and 13/CP.22,  
Further recalling decision 3/CP.19, paragraph 10,  
1. Reiterates that developed country Parties shall biennially communicate indicative 
quantitative and qualitative information related to Article 9, paragraphs 1 and 3, of the Paris 
Agreement, as applicable, including, as available, projected levels of public financial 
resou rces to be provided to developing country Parties, and that other Parties providing 
resources are encouraged to communicate biennially such information on a voluntary 
basis;1 
2. Welcomes the constructive sharing of views  during the  round -table discussion 
amon g Parties organized by the secretariat on 16 May 2017;  
3. Also welcomes the summary report o n that  round -table discussion prepared by the 
secretariat;2 
4. Further w elcomes the progress made on this matter as reflected in the informal note 
by the co -chairs of the  contact group thereon;3 
5. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to consider, beginning at its forty -
eighth session (April –May 2018) and at any subsequent sessions on the Paris Agreement 
work program me, the identification of the information to be p rovided by Parties in 
accordance with Article 9, paragraph 5, of the Paris Agreement, and to forward the 
outcomes to the Conference of the Parties  at its twenty -fourth session  (December 2018)  
with a view to the Conference of the Parties  providing a recomme ndation for consideration 
and adoption by the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Paris Agreement  at the third part of its first session (December 2018) ; 
6. Also r equests  the Sub sidiary Body for Implementation  to consider th e matter 
referred to in paragraph 5  above  taking into account the informal note referred to in 
paragraph 4  above.  
14th plenary meeting  
18 November 2017  
    
                                                           
 1 Article 9, paragraph 5, of the Paris Agreement.   
 2 FCCC/CP/2017/INF.2.   
 3 http://un fccc.int/files/meetings/bonn_nov_2017/in -
session/application/pdf/cop23_10f_informal_note.pdf .   
GE.18-01343 (E) 

Conference of the Parties  
  Report of the Conference of the Parties on its twenty -third 
session, held in Bonn from 6 to 1 8 November 2017  
Addendum  
 Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -
third session  
Contents  
  Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties  
Decision  Page 
  13/CP.23  Assessment of the technical examination process es on mitigation  
and adaptation  ................................ ................................ ...................   2 
  14/CP.23  Review of the effective implementation of the Climate Technology  
Centre and Network  ................................ ................................ ..........   4 
  15/CP.23  Enhancing climate technology development and transfer through  
the Technology Mechan ism ................................ ..............................   6 
  16/CP.23  Annual technical progress report of the Paris Committee on  
Capacity -building for 2017  ................................ ...............................   8 
  17/CP.23  Fourth review of the implementation of the framework for  
capacity -building in countries with economies in transition  .............   9 
  18/CP.23  Scope of the next periodic review of the long -term global goal under  
the Convention and of overall progress towards achieving it  ...........   10 
  19/CP.23  Training programme for review experts for the technical review of  
biennial reports and national communications of Par ties included in  
Annex I to the Convention  ................................ ................................   11 
  20/CP.23  Administrative, financial and institutional matters  ...........................   14 
  21/CP.23  Programme budget for the biennium 2018 –2019  .............................   16 
  22/CP.23  Dates and venues of future sessions ................................ ..................   26 
Resolution  
  1/CP.23  Expression of gratitude to the Government of the Federal Republic  
of Germany and the people of the city of Bonn  ................................   28  United Nations  FCCC /CP/2017/11/Add.2  
  
Distr.: General  
8 February  2018  
 
Original: English  
FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.2  
2    Decision 13/CP.23  
Assessment of the technical examination processes on 
mitigation and adaptation  
 The Conference of the Parties , 
 Recall ing its decision to conduct an assessment of the technical examination 
processes on mitigation and adaptation so as to improve their effectiveness,1 
 Expressing its appreciation  to the Chairs of the subsidiary bodies, the high -level 
champions, the Adaptati on Committee, the Technology Executive Committee, Parties and 
non-Party stakeholders for the efforts undertaken and outputs produced so far in the 
implementation of the technical examination processes,  
 Having  conducted the assessment of the technical exam ination processes and 
considered ways of improving their effectiveness,  
1. Stresses  the urgency of improving the technical examination processes, as outlined 
in decision 1/CP.21, including to better integrate them with the Marrakech Partnership for 
Global Cli mate Action;  
2. Strongly urges  the Chairs of the subsidiary bodies, the high -level champions,2 the 
Adaptation Committee, the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology 
Centre and Network to focus the technical examination processes on specific policy options 
and opportunities for enhancing mitigation and adaptation that are actionable in the short 
term, including those with sustainable development co -benefits;  
3. Also s trongly urges  the high -level champions to identify, by 12 January 2018, in 
consu ltation with the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology 
Centre and Network, topics for the technical examination process on mitigation for the 
period until 2020;  
4. Requests  the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Cent re 
and Network to include in their joint annual report to the Conference of the Parties, having 
consulted with the high -level champions thereon, recommendations for Parties and other 
organizations on ways forward and necessary actions to be taken based on the outcomes of 
the technical expert meetings;3 
5. Also r equests  the Adaptation Committee, in conducting the technical examination 
process on adaptation, to consider the needs of Parties expressed in their nationally 
determined contributions, national adaptat ion plans and national communications, to 
address all four functions of the technical examination process on adaptation,4 and to 
include in its annual report to the Conference of the Parties recommendations for respective 
processes and for constituted bodi es under the Convention, Parties and other organizations 
on ways forward and necessary actions to be taken based on the outcomes of the technical 
expert meetings;  
6. Invites  expert organizations, constituted bodies under the Convention and non -Party 
stakeholders to enhance their engagement in the technical examination processes;  
7. Also invites  expert organizations to volunteer, through the secretariat, to lead the 
organization of relevant technical expert meetings;  
8. Further invites  the lead expert organizations and requests  the secretariat, as 
appropriate, in organizing the technical expert meetings:  
                                                           
 1 Decision 1/CP.21, paragraphs 113 and 131.  
 2 Decision 1/CP.21, paragraphs 121 and 122.  
 3 Decision 1/CP.21, paragraphs 111(a) and 129(a).  
 4 Decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 127.  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.2  
 3  (a) To make the technical expert meetings more interactive, including by means 
of round tables, thematic dialogues and virtual participation;  
  (b) To make the agenda and guiding questions for the technical expert meetings 
available well in advance thereof;  
  (c) To conclude the technical expert meetings with a session on proposing ways 
forward and necessary actions in relation to the identified policy options and opportunities 
referred to in paragraph 2 above for inclusion in the technical papers5 and subsequent 
summaries for policymakers;6  
9. Invites  Parties and non -Party stakeholder s to organize  regional technical expert 
meetings, building on existing regional climate action events, as appropriate, with a view to 
examining specific finance, technology and capacity -building resources necessary to scale 
up actions in regional contexts,  including through regional mitigation and adaptation 
initiatives, and to provide their reports thereon to the secretariat as input to the technical 
examination processes;  
10. Strongly  urges  the Chairs of the subsidiary bodies, the high -level champions , the 
Adaptation Committee, the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology 
Centre and Network to ensure the necessary continuity of and follow -up on the identified 
policy options and opportunities referred to in paragraph 2 above, including by info rming 
the summaries for policymakers,7 the high -level events8 and the Talanoa  dialogue;  
11. Invites  Parties and non -Party stakeholders to share experience on actions taken and 
pledges made towards addressing the recommendations referred to in paragraphs 4 and 5 
above as input to the relevant technical papers, summaries for  policymakers and high -level 
events.  
12th plenary meeting  
17 November 201 7
                                                           
 5 Decision 1/CP.21, paragraphs 111(b) and 129(b).  
 6 Decision 1/CP.21, paragraphs 111(c) and 129(b).  
 7 As footnote 6 above.  
 8 Decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 120.  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.2  
4    Decision 14/CP.23  
  Review of the effective implementation of the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  decisions 1/CP.16, 2/CP.17, 1/CP.18 and 14/CP.18,  
1. Welcomes the report on the independent  review of the effective implementation of 
the Climate Technology Centre and Network (hereinafter referred to as the independent 
review)1 commissioned by the secretariat in response to decision 2/CP.17, annex VII, 
paragraph 20;  
2. Welcomes with appreciation  the support provided by Parties2 and the Global 
Environment Facility, and the financial and in -kind contributions from the United Nations 
Environment Programme, the United Nations Industrial Development Organization and 
other  consortium partners of the Cl imate Technology Centre and Network in supporting the 
operationalization  and activities of the Climate Technology Centre and Network;  
3. Notes the key findings of the independent review regarding the relevance, 
effectiveness, efficiency, impact and sustainabi lity of the services provided by the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network, as contained in the report referred to in paragraph 1 
above;3 
4. Also n otes the achievements and challenges regarding the effective implementation 
of the Climate Technology Centre and  Network, as contained in the report referred to in 
paragraph 1 above;4 
5. Decides  to renew the memorandum of understanding between the Conference of the 
Parties and the United Nations Environment Programme regarding the hosting of the 
Climate Technology Cent re, as contained in annex I to decision 14/CP.18, for a further 
four-year period, in accordance with decision 2/CP.17, annex VII, paragraph 22;  
6. Authorizes the Executive Secretary to sign, on behalf of the Conference of the 
Parties, the memorandum of unders tanding referred to in paragraph 5 above;  
7. Invites  the United Nations Environment Programme, as the host of the Climate 
Technology Centre, with the support of the Climate Technology Centre and Network and in 
consultation with its Advisory Board, and within their respective functions and mandates,5 
to provide a management response to the relevant findings and recommendations of the 
independent review for consideration by the Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its 
forty -eighth session  (April –May 2018 ), taki ng into account Parties’ deliberations at this 
session;  
8. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation, at its forty -eighth session, to 
consider the findings and recommendations of the independent review, and the 
management response from the United Nation s Environment Programme referred to in 
paragraph 7 above with a view to recommending a draft decision on enhancing the 
performance of the Climate Technology Centre and Network for consideration and 
adoption by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -fourth session (December 2018);  
9. Notes that the Climate Technology Centre and Network continues to face challenges 
that need attention regarding sustainable funding for implementing its functions , and that 
                                                           
 1 FCCC/CP/2017/3.  
 2 Canada, Denmark, European Union, Finland, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Norway, Republic of 
Korea, Spain, Switzerland and United States of America .  
 3 FCCC/CP/20 17/3, paragraphs 51 –82.  
 4 FCCC/CP/2017/3, paragraphs 83 and 84.  
 5 Decision 2/CP.17, annex VII, and decision 14/CP.18, annex I.   FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.2  
 5 further financial support should be provided, recalli ng decis ion 2/CP.17, paragraphs 139 
and 141; 
10. Requests  the secretariat, pursuant to decision 2/CP.17, annex VII, paragraph 20 , and 
subject to the availability of financial resources, to commission the second independent 
review of the effective implementatio n of the Climate Technology Centre and Network for 
consideration by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -seventh session (November 
2021), taking into account lessons learned from the first independent review, including 
issues related to the timing o f the review report and the management response referred to in 
paragraph 7 above.  
12th plenary meeting  
17 November 201 7FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.2  
6    Decision 15/CP.23  
  Enhancing climate technology development and transfer 
through the Technology Mechanism  
 The Conference of the Parties , 
 Recalling decisions 1/CP.18, 13/CP.18, 17/CP.20, 12/CP.21 and 15/CP.22,  
1. Welcomes the joint annual report of the Tech nology Executive Committee and the 
Climate Technology Centre and Network for 2017, including the key messages and 
recommendations contained therein, and the progress of their work to facilitate the effective 
implementation of the Technology Mechanism;1 
2. Acknowledges the work undertaken by the Technology Executive Committee and 
the Climate Technology Centre and Network in supporting the implementation of the Paris 
Agreement, and looks forward to enhanced efforts in this regard in the future, taking into 
consi deration gender, endogenous technologies, including knowledge from local 
communities and indigenous people s, and the balance between  adaptation and mitigation;  
3. Welcomes with appreciation the inclusion in the joint annual report referred to in 
paragraph 1 above of information on challenges and lessons learned by the Technology 
Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Centre and Network in implementing 
their respective mandates;  
4. Takes note of the updated procedures for preparing the joint annual report  of the 
Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Centre and Network, as 
contained in annex I to the joint annual report referred to in paragraph 1 above;  
5. Requests  the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Centre 
and Net work to carry out  monitoring and evaluation of the impacts of the implementation 
of their respective mandates ; 
6. Notes with appreciation  the collaboration between the Technology Executive 
Committee and the Climate Technology Centre and Network, and encourage s the two 
bodies to continue to strengthen the collaboration across the entire technology cycle ;  
I. Activities and performance of the Technology Executive 
Committee in 2017  
7. Welcomes  the progress made by the Technology Executive Committee in advancing 
the imp lementation of its rolling workplan for 2016 –2018,2 including in the areas of: 
adaptation; climate technology financing; emerging and cross -cutting issues; innovation 
and research, development and demonstration; mitigation; and technology needs 
assessments ; 
8. Invites  Parties and all relevant stakeholders working on technology development and 
transfer, when implementing climate technology action, to consider the key messages and 
recommendations of the Technology Executive Committee, noting that these are in th e 
areas of innovation, industrial energy and material efficiency, and technology needs 
assessments;  
9. Also invites  the Technology Executive Committee to continue to  enhance the 
linkages between the technology needs assessments process and the nationally dete rmined 
contributions process, and between the technology needs assessments process and the 
national adaptation plans process ; 
                                                           
 1 FCCC/SB/2017/3 .  
 2 Technology Executive Committee document TEC/2016/12/13 -an. Available at https://goo.gl/nybgmc . FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.2  
 7 10. Encourages the Technology Executive Committee to continue strengthening 
collaboration with other constituted bodies under the Conv ention, including the Adaptation 
Committee and the Executive Committee of the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss 
and Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts;  
11. Invites the Technology Executive Committee to enhance its communication and 
outreach st rategy ; 
II. Activities and performance of the Climate Technology Centre 
and Network in 2017  
12. Welcomes the progress made by the Climate Technology Centre and Network in 
2017 in implementing its programme of work, including by enhancing its response to the 
increa sed requests for technical assistance; broadening the network membership; and 
increasing the use of expertise sourced from the network to address the requests for 
technical assistance;  
13. Encourages the Climate Technology Centre and Network to continue streng thening 
partnership and collaboration with relevant stakeholders;  
14. Notes that the Climate Technology Centre and Network continues to face challenges 
that need attention regarding sustainable funding for implementing its functions , and that 
further financial  support should be provided, recalling decision 2/CP.17, paragraphs 139 
and 141; 
15. Welcomes with appreciation the ongoing collaboration between the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network and the Green Climate Fund , wherein the services and 
expertise of the Climate Technology Centre and Network can strengthen proposals seeking 
support from the Readiness and Preparatory Support Programme and the Project 
Preparation Facility  of the Green Climate Fund;  
16. Welcomes  the engagement of the Climate Technology Centre  and Network with the 
Global Environment Facility and multilateral development banks regarding collaborative 
activities, including the implementation of technical assistance requests with scalable 
investment potential ; 
17. Invites the Climate Technology Centre  and Network to continue providing support 
for enhancing  the capacity of national designated entities;  
18. Also invites Parties that have not yet nominated their national designated entities to 
communicate their nomination to the secretariat through their nati onal focal point.  
12th plenary meeting  
17 November 201 7FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.2  
8    Decision 16/CP.23  
  Annual technical progress report of the Paris Committee on 
Capacity -building for 2017  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  decisions 2/CP.17, 1/CP.21, 2/CP.22 and 16/CP.22,  
1. Emphasizes  the importance of addressing the capacity gaps and needs, both current 
and emerging, related to implementing capac ity-building activities in developing country 
Parties;  
2. Appreciates  the work of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building in its first year ; 
3. Welcomes  the annual technical progress report of the Paris Committee on Capacity -
building for 2017,1 taking note of t he recommendations contained therein ; 
4. Takes note  of the rules of procedure and working modalities of the Paris Committee 
on Capacity -building;2  
5. Also takes note  of the rolling workplan of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building 
for 2017 –2019;3 
6. Invites  Parties and relevant institutions to provide support and resources to the Paris 
Committee on Capacity -building in implementing its 2017 –2019 workplan in the light of 
the aim of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building , established by decision 1/CP.21;  
7. Encourages  the Paris Committee on Capacity -building , when implementing its 
workplan , to identify and collaborate with institutions and other stakeholders with relevant 
expertise, tools and resources, including bodies established under the Convention ; 
8. Takes  note of the decision of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building to continue 
its 2017 focus area or theme of capacity -building activities for the implementation of 
nationally determined contributions in the context of the Paris Agreement in 2018;4 
9. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to thematically align the next 
Durban Forum with the 2017 –2018 focus area or theme of the Paris Committee on 
Capacity -building, taking note of the recommendation of the committee contained in its 
2017 technic al progress report;  
10. Also r equests  the secretariat to help to identify communication modalities that would 
better accommodate the intersessional work of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building.  
12th plenary meeting  
17 November 201 7
                                                           
 1 FCCC/SBI/2017/11 .  
 2 FCCC/SBI/2017/11 , annex II.  
 3 FCCC/SBI/2017/11 , annex IV . 
 4 FCCC/SBI/2017/11 , annex III, in particular paragraphs 60 and 61.  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.2  
 9   Decision 17/CP.23  
  Fourth review of the implementation of the framework for 
capacity -building in countries with economies in transition  
The Conference  of the Parties , 
Recalling  decisions 3/CP.7, 9/CP.9, 3/CP.10, 2/CP.17 and 21/CP.18,  
Acknowledging  that capacity -building for countries with economies in transition is 
essential to enable them to implement effectively their commitments under the Convention,   
Having considered the information provided by Parties, the submissions received in 
response to the invitations of the Conference of the Parties and the compilation and 
synthesis report in support of the fourth review of the implementation of the framewor k for 
capacity -building in countries with economies in transition established under  decision 
3/CP.7,  
1. Recognizes  that: 
(a) Significant progress has been made in building the capacity of countries with 
economies in transition to mitigate and adapt to climate change, and that some recipients of 
assistance have started to transfer their own expertise, knowledge and lessons learned on 
capacity -building to Parties not included in Annex I to the Convention;  
(b) Parties included in Annex I to the Convention and the Glob al Environment 
Facility, within its mandate, have provided adequate resources and assistance for the 
implementation of the framework for capacity -building in countries with economies in 
transition established under  decision 3/CP.7;  
(c) Support was also provide d to countries with economies in transition by 
multilateral development banks and international financial institutions;  
(d) Countries with economies in transition that are currently receiving support, 
notwithstanding the progress made, are in need of further c apacity -building, in particular 
for the development and implementation of national low -carbon development strategies 
consistent with their national priorities and with their emission reduction targets;  
2. Reaffirms that the scope of the needs identified in th e framework for capacity -
building in countries with economies in transition established under decision 3/CP.7 and 
the key factors identified in decision 3/CP.10 remain relevant and continue to be the basis 
for, and guide the implementation of, capacity -building activities in countries with 
economies in transition that are currently receiving support ; 
3. Invites  Parties included in Annex II to the Convention and other Parties in a position 
to do so, the Global Environment Facility, multilateral and bilateral ag encies, international 
organizations, multilateral development banks, international financial institutions and the 
private sector, or any further arrangements, as appropriate and within their mandates, to 
continue to provide support for capacity -building ac tivities in countries with economies in 
transition that are currently receiving support;  
4. Decides  to conclude the fourth review, and request s the Subsidiary Body for 
Implementation , at its session  to be held in June 2020 , to initiate the fifth review of the  
implementation of the framework for capacity -building in countries with economies in 
transition with a view to completing this review at the twenty -sixth session of the 
Conference of the Parties  (November 2020) . 
12th plenary meeting  
17 November 201 7FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.2  
10    Decision 18/CP.23  
  Scope of the next periodic review of the long -term global goal 
under the Convention and of overall progress towards 
achieving it  
The Conference  of the Parties ,  
Recalling  decision 10/CP.21, paragraph 10,  
Noting  the recommendation by the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and 
Technological Advice and the Subsidiary Body for Implementation, at their forty -sixth 
sessions, on the scope of the next periodic review of the long -term global goal under the 
Convention and of o verall progress towards achieving it,  
Decides  that the consideration of the scope of the next periodic review of the long -
term global goal under the Convention and of overall progress towards achieving it should 
be resumed by the Subsidiary Body for Scien tific and Technological Advice and the 
Subsidiary Body for Implementation at their sessions to be held in June 2019 with a view 
to the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice and the Subsidiary Body 
for Implementation forwarding a recommend ation for consideration by the Conference of 
the Parties at its twenty -fifth session (November 2019) that will take into account the 
relevant work on the global stocktake under the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Paris 
Agreement, and the Talanoa dialogue, whic h will take place in 2018, and the technical 
examination processes.1 
12th plenary meeting  
17 November 201 7
                                                           
 1 FCCC/SBSTA/2016/2, paragraph 46, and FCCC/SBI/2016/8, paragraph 132.  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.2  
 11   Decision 19/CP.23  
Training programme for review experts for the technical 
review of biennial reports and national communications of 
Parties included in Annex I to the Convention  
 The Conference of the Parties , 
 Recalling Articles 4, 7 and 12 of the Convention and  decisions 2/CP.1, 9/CP.2, 
6/CP.3, 4/CP.5, 33/CP.7, 18/CP.10, 1/CP.13, 2/CP.17  and 19/CP.18 on national 
communications and biennial reports,  
 Also recalling  decision 13/CP.20 on the guidelines for the technical review of 
information reported under the Convention related to greenhouse gas inventories,  biennial 
reports and national communications by Parties included in Annex I to the Convention , 
 Further recalling  decision 15/CP.20 on the training programme for review experts 
for the technical review of biennial reports and national communications of Parties included 
in Annex I to the Convention,  
 Having considered the relevant  recommendations  of the Subsi diary Body for 
Scientific and Technological Advice,  
 Recognizing  the importance  of the training  programme for review experts for the 
technical review of biennial reports and national communications of Parties included in 
Annex I to the Convention and the importance of enhancing the training programme,  
1. Requests  the secretariat to enhance the materials of the training programme, on the 
basis of decisions 24/CP.19 and 9/CP.21 and taking into account the experience gained in 
conducting the technical reviews of biennial reports and national communications of Parties 
included in Annex I to the Convention since 2014, before the start of the reviews of the 
seventh national communications and third biennial reports of Parties included in Annex I 
to the Convention in 2018;  
2. Also requests  the secretariat to enhance the user interface of the training courses 
with a view to making them more user -friendly;  
3. Further requests  the secretariat to implement the training programme and 
examinations for review experts for t he technical review of biennial reports and national 
communications of Parties included in Annex I to the Convention as outlined in the annex;  
4. Requests the secretariat to include, in its annual report to the Subsidiary Body for 
Scientific and Technological Advice on the composition of expert review teams, 
information on the training programme, in particular on examination procedures and the 
selection of trainees, so that Parties may assess the effectiveness of the programme.  
 FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.2  
12  Annex  
Training programme for review experts for the technical review of 
biennial reports and national communications of Parties included in 
Annex I to the Convention  
 A. Details of the training programme  
1. The courses are intended to train review experts for the technical review of biennial 
reports and national communications of Parties included in Annex I to the Convention. All 
training courses will be available online and able to be downloaded. For trainees without 
easy access to the Internet, courses will be distributed through other electronic means. The 
courses will also be made available to others interested in the review process, pr ovided that 
this does not require additional resources. All courses will be available upon request to 
trainees all year round, without facilitation by instructors.  
2. All training courses will include an examination. Examination procedures will be 
standard ized, objective and transparent.  
3. The examination will take place online. In exceptional circumstances, other 
arrangements for examinations will be made, provided that the examinations take place 
under the supervision of the secretariat and that this doe s not require additional resources.  
4. New review experts  who successfully complete the relevant requirements of the 
training programme and pass the examinations will be invited to participate in a centralized 
or in-country review, working alongside experi enced review experts . 
5. Experts who do not pass an examination for a course at the first attempt may retake 
the examination up to two more times only, provided that the expert has fulfilled all of the 
tasks assigned during the training course in a timely manner and that the retake does not 
require the secretariat to incur additional costs.  
 B. Courses of the training programme  
 1. General and cross -cutting aspects of the review of national communications  
and biennial reports  
Description : This course covers the reporting requirements and the procedures for the 
general aspects of the review process of national communications and biennial reports 
under the Convention, and aims to provide a comprehensive overview of the reporting and 
review r equirements and guidance to expert review teams on the process and steps for 
conducting reviews under the international assessment and review process. The course 
promotes consistency and fairness in the review process by providing technical guidance on 
the general review approaches and use of tools.  
Preparation : 2017.  
Implementation : 2017 –2020.  
Target audience : New and experienced review experts  and lead reviewers.  
Type of course : E-learning, without an instructor.  
Examination requirements and format : New review experts  and new lead reviewers 
must pass the examination before participating in expert review teams. Lead reviewers and 
experienced experts are encouraged to take the examination. Online examination.  
 2. Technical review of targets and of policies a nd measures, their effects  
and their contribution to achieving those targets  
Description : This course provides general guidance and approaches for the technical 
review of information on national policy context and greenhouse gas (GHG) mitigation 
targets, p olicies and measures (PaMs), the effects of each individual PaM and their 
contribution to the reduction of GHG emissions.  
Preparation : 2017.  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.2  
 13 Implementation : 2017 –2020.  
Target audience : New and experienced review experts  reviewing targets and PaMs, and 
lead reviewers.  
Type of course : E-learning, without an instructor.  
Examination requirements and format : New review experts  must pass the examination 
before participating in expert review teams. Lead reviewers and experienced experts 
reviewing targets and  PaMs , their effects and their contribution to achieving those targets 
are encouraged to take the examination. Online examination.  
 3. Technical review of greenhouse gas emissions, emission trends, projections  
and the total effect of policies and measures  
Descri ption : This course provides general guidance and approaches for the technical 
review of information on GHG emissions, emission trends, projections and the total effect 
of PaMs.  
Preparation : 2017.   
Implementation : 2017 –2020.  
Target audience : New and experie nced review experts  reviewing emission trends, 
projections and the total effect of PaMs, and lead reviewers.  
Type of course : E-learning, without an instructor.  
Examination requirements and format : New review experts  must pass the examination 
before partici pating in expert review teams. Lead reviewers and experienced experts 
reviewing GHG  emissions, emission trends, projections and the total effect of PaMs are 
encouraged to take the examination. Online examination.  
 4. Technical review of the provision of fi nancial support, technology transfer and 
capacity -building  
Description : This course provides general guidance and approaches for the technical 
review of information on the provision of financial resources by Parties included in Annex 
II to the Convention t o Parties not included in Annex I to the Convention, the promotion, 
facilitation and financing of the transfer of technology, and capacity -building, including 
creating national expertise on issues related to climate change, strengthening institutions 
and d eveloping educational, training and awareness -raising activities.  
Preparation : 2017.  
Implementation : 2017 –2020.  
Target audience : New and experienced review experts  reviewing the provision of financial 
support, technology transfer and capacity -building, and lead reviewers.  
Type of course : E-learning, without an instructor.  
Examination requirements and format : New review experts  must pass the examination 
before partic ipating in expert review teams. Lead reviewers and experienced experts 
reviewing the provision of financial support, technology transfer and capacity -building are 
encouraged to take the examination. Online examination.  
12th plenary meeting  
17 November 201 7FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.2  
14    Decision 20/CP.23  
  Administrative, financial and institutional matters  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  decision 22/CP.21, in which the programme budget for the biennium 
2016 –2017 was approved,  
Also recalling  paragraph 11 of the financial procedures for the Conference of the 
Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, its  subsidiary 
bodies and its permanent secretariat,1 
Having considered  the information contained in the documents prepared by the 
secretariat on administrative, financial and institutional matters,2 
I. Budget performance for the biennium 2016 –2017  
1. Takes note  of the information contained in the report on budget performance for the 
biennium 2016 –2017 as at 30 June 20173 and the note on the  status of contributions to the 
trust funds administered by the secretariat  as at 16 October  2017;4  
2. Expresses its appreciation  to Parties that made contributions to the core budget in a  
timely manner;   
3. Expresses concern  regarding the high level of outstanding contributions to the core 
budget for the current and previous bienniums , which has resulted in difficulties with cash 
flow;  
4. Strongly urges  Parties that have not made contributions in full to the core budget for 
the current and/or previous bienniums to do so without further delay;   
5. Calls upon  Parties to make their contributions to t he core budget for the year 2018  in 
a timely manner, bearing in mind that contributions are due on 1 January of each year in 
accordance with the financial procedures for the Conference of the Parties ;  
6. Expresses its appreciation  for the contributions to the Trust Fund for Participation in 
the UNFCCC Process and to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities received from 
Parties;  
7. Urges  Parties to further contribute to the Trust Fund for Participation in the 
UNFCCC Process, in order to ensure the widest possible participa tion in the negotiations  in 
2018 , and to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities;   
8. Reiterate s its appreciatio n to the Government of Germany for its annual voluntary 
contribution to the core budget of EUR 766,938 and its special contribution of EUR 
1,789,522 as Host Government  of the secretariat;   
                                                           
 1 Decision 15/CP.1 , annex I.  
 2 FCCC/SBI/2017 /13, FCCC/SBI/2017/INF.8, FCCC/SBI/2017 /INF.14  and FCCC/SBI/2017 /INF.15  
and Add.1 . 
 3 FCCC/SBI/2017/13.  
 4 FCCC/SBI/2017/INF.14.  FCCC /CP/2017/11/Add.2  
 15 II. Audit report a nd financial statements for 2016  
9. Takes note  of the audit report of the United Nations Board of Auditors5 and the 
financial statements for 2016, which include recommendations, and the comments of the 
secretariat thereon;  
10. Expresses its appreciation  to the United Nations for arranging the audit of the 
accounts of the Convention;  
11. Also expresses its appreciation  to the auditors for the valuable observations and 
recommendations and the presentation made thereon to Parties;  
12. Urges  the Executive Secretary to implement the recommendations of the auditors, as 
appropriate.  
12th plenary meeting  
17 November 201 7
                                                           
 5 FCCC/SBI /2017/INF.15 and Add.1.  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.2  
16    Decision 21/CP.23  
  Programme budget for the biennium 2018 –2019  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling paragraphs 4 and 7(a) of the  financial procedures for the Conference of 
the Parties, its subsidiary bodies and the secretariat,1  
Having considered the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2018 –2019 
submitted by the Executive Secretary ,2  
1. Approves  the programme budget for the b iennium 2018 –2019, amounting to EUR 
56,889,092 for the purposes specified  in table 1;  
2. Notes with appreciation the annual  contribution of EUR 766,938 of the Host 
Government, which offsets planned expenditures;  
3. Approves the staffing table (see table  2) for the programme budget;  
4. Notes  that the programme budget contains elements relating to the Convention and 
the Paris Agreement as well as to the Kyoto Protocol;  
5. Adopts the indicative scale of contributions for 2018 and 2019 contained in the 
annex, cove ring 85 per cent of the indicative contributions specified in table 1;  
6. Invites  the Conference of the Parties  serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Kyoto Protocol, at its thirteenth session, to endorse the elements of the recommended 
budget as it app lies to the Kyoto Protocol;  
7. Also invites  the United Nations General Assembly to decide, at its seventy -second 
session, on the issue of meeting the conference services  expenses from its regular budget as 
a continuation of existing practice ; 
8. Approves a conti ngency budget for conference services, amounting to EUR 
9,651,400, to be added to the programme budget for the biennium 2018 –2019 in the event 
that the United Nations General Assembly decides not to provide resources for these 
activities in the United Nati ons regular budget (see table 3);  
9. Requests the Executive Secretary to report to the Subsidiary Body for 
Implementation on the implementation of matters referred to in paragraphs 7 and 8 above, 
as necessary;  
10. Authorizes  the Executive Secretary to make transf ers between each of the 
appropriation lines set out in table 1, up to an aggregate limit of 15 per cent of total 
estimated expenditure for those appropriation  lines, provided that a further limitation of up 
to minus 25 per cent of each such appropriation l ine shall apply, while ensuring no negative 
impacts on the activities under each programme;  
11. Decides  to maintain the level of the working  capital reserve at 8.3 per cent of the 
estimated expenditure;  
12. Invites  all Parties to the Convention to note that contri butions to the core budget are 
due on 1 January of each year in accordance with paragraph 8(b) of the financial 
procedures3 and to pay promptly and in full, for each of the years 2018 and 2019, the 
contributions required to finance expenditures approved in  paragraph 1 above and any 
contributions required to finance the expenditures arising from the decision referred to in 
paragraph 8 above;  
13. Takes note  of the funding estimates for the Trust Fund for Participation in the 
UNFCCC Process specified by the Execut ive Secretary (see table 4);  
                                                           
 1 Decision 15/CP.1, annex I.  
 2 FCCC/SBI/2017/4.  
 3 As footnote 1 above . FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.2  
 17 14. Invites Parties to make contributions to the Trust Fund for Participation in the 
UNFCCC Process;  
15. Takes note  of the funding estimates for the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities 
specified by the Executive Secretary (EUR 53,4 84,419 for the biennium 2018 –2019) (see 
table 5);  
16. Invites  Parties to make contributions to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities  
with a view to enabling the implementation of mandated activities envisaged under the 
fund; 
17. Requests  the secretariat to c ontinue to seek efficiencies, streamline administrative 
services, absorb work in order to save costs in the biennium 2018 –2019 and to report 
thereon at the session of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to be held in June 2019;  
18. Also requests the secreta riat to prepare and make available an annual report as 
outlined in document FCCC/SBI/2016/INF.14, paragraph 37, to be considered at each 
session of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation following the closure of the preceding 
financial year, providing info rmation on the secretariat’s activities in the preceding year, 
programme delivery highlights and financial performance;  
19. Further requests  the Executive Secretary to report to the Conference of the Parties at 
its twenty -fourth session (December 2018) on income and budget  performance , taking into 
account guidance from Parties, and to propose any adjustments that might be needed to the 
program me budget for the biennium 2018 –2019;  
20. Requests , recalling paragraph 22 of decision 22/CP.21, in which the Executive 
Secretary was requested to include a zero nominal growth scenario in preparing future 
programme budget proposals, that such zero nominal gro wth budget scenarios be presented 
in the official budget documents in the same format and at the same level of detail as any 
other budget scenarios that the secretariat might provide.  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.2  
18  Table 1  
Core budget for 2018 –2019 by programme  
 2018 (EUR)  2019 (EUR)  Total (EUR)  
A. Appropriations     
Executive Direction and Managementa 2 353 745  2 353 745  4 707 490  
Implementation and climate action cluster     
 Mitigation, Data and Analysis  7 956 080  7 670 780  15 626 860  
 Finance, Technology and Capacity -Building  3 010  180 3 010 180  6 020 360  
 Adaptation  2 677 500  2 684 600  5 362 100  
 Sustainable Development Mechanism  439 740  439 740  879 480  
Subtotal implementation and climate action cluster  14 083 500  13 805 300  27 888 800  
Intergovernmental affairs and secretariat operations 
cluster     
 Legal Affairs  1 076 800  1 076 800  2 153 600  
 Conference Affairs Services  1 699 035  1 696 620  3 395 655  
 Communications and Outreach  1 715 660  1 715 660  3 431 320  
 Information and Communication Technology  2 723 900  2 723 900  5 447  800 
 Administrative Servicesb – – – 
 Secretariat -wide operating costsc 1 644 030  1 584 433  3 228 463  
Subtotal intergovernmental affairs and secretariat 
operations cluster   8 859 425   8 797 413   17 656 838  
Total appropriations  25 296 670  24 956 458  50 253 128  
B. Programme support costs (overheads)d 3 288 567  3 244 340  6 532 907  
C. Adjustment to working capital reservee 103 057  – 103 057  
Total (A + B + C)  28 688 294  28 200 798  56 889 092  
Income     
Contribution from the Host Government  766 938  766 938  1 533 876  
Indicative contributions  27 921 356  27 433 860  55 355 216  
Total income  28 688 294  28 200 798  56 889 092  
a   The appropriation for the Executive Direction and Management programme includes a provision for an annual grant of EUR 
244,755 to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.  
b   Administrative Services is funded from programme support costs (overheads).  
c   Secretariat -wide operating costs are managed by Administrative Services.  
d   Standard  13 per cent applied for administrative support.  
e   In acc ordance with the financial procedures (decision 15/CP.1), the core budget is required to maintain a working capital 
reserve of 8.3 per cent (one month of operating requirements) , amounting to EUR 2,372,575 in 2018, which will be maintained at 
that level in  2019.  
Table 2  
Secretariat -wide staffing from the core budget  
 2017  2018  2019  
Professional category and above     
USG  1 1 1 
ASG  1 1 1 
D-2 2 2 2 
D-1 7 7 7 
P-5 15 15 15 
P-4 35 35 35 
P-3 43 43 43 
P-2 16 16 16 FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.2  
 19 Subtotal Professional category and 
above  120 120 120 
Subtotal General Service category  53.5 53.5 53.5 
Total  173.5  173.5  173.5  
Abbreviations : USG = Under -Secretary -General, ASG = Assistant Secretary -General, D = Director , P = 
Professional.  
Table 3  
Resource requirements for the conference services contingency  
 2018 (EUR)  2019 (EUR)  2018–2019 (EUR)  
Object of expenditure     
Interpretationa  1 175 300   1 210 600   2 385 900  
Documentationb    
Translation   1 944 800   2 003 100   3 947 900  
Reproduction and distribution  668 300  668 400  1 336 700 
Meetings services supportc  249 000   276 400   525 400  
Subtotal   4 037 400   4 158 500   8 195 900  
Programme support costs   524 900   540 600   1 065 500  
Working capital reserve   378 700   11 300   390 000  
Total   4 941 000   4 710 400   9 651 400  
a   Includes  salaries, travel and daily subsistence allowance for interpreters.  
b   Includes all costs related to the processing of pre -, in- and post -session documentation; 
translation costs include revision and typing of documents.  
c   Includes salaries, travel and daily su bsistence allowance for meetings services support staff and 
costs of shipment and telecommunications.  
Table 4  
Resource requirements for the Trust Fund for Participation in the UNFCCC process 
in the biennium 2018 –2019  
Sessional options  Estimated cost (EUR)  
Option 1: Support for one delegate from each eligible Party to participate in a two -week 
session organized in Bonn, Germany  1 017 582  
Option 2: Support for one delegate from each eligible Party plus a second delegate from 
each of the least developed countries and each small island developing State to 
participate in a two -week session organized in Bonn  1 561 042  
Option 3: Support for two delegates from each eligible Party to participate in a two -
week session organized in Bonn  2 035 164  
Option 4: Support for two delegates from each eligible Party plus a third delegate from 
each of the least developed countries and each small island developing State to 
participate in a two -week session organized in Poland  2 880 338  
Note : Report of the Conference of the Parties on its nineteenth session, paragraph 145 (FCCC/CP/2013/10): “At 
the resumed 10th meeting, the Executive Secretary requested that the following statement be reflected in the report 
of the session: ‘Since its inception, the secretar iat has applied a consistent policy for the funding of representatives 
from developing country Parties across all relevant trust funds. In light of decisions taken in Cancun and Doha, it 
has been decided to adjust the policy as follows: representatives fro m developing country Parties designated by 
their respective regional groups to participate in meetings of the constituted bodies established under the 
Convention, and elected by parent bodies, will be eligible for funding under the Trust Fund for the UNFCC C Core 
Budget and the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities’”.  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.2  
20  Table 5  
Resource requirements for the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities in the biennium 2018 –2019  
Project 
no. Activities to be undertaken by the secretariat  Supplementary 
requirements  
EUR  
 Support to implementation    
 Adaptation    
1 Promoting transparency and assessment of adaptation action, stakeholder engagement and outreach  1 680 647  
2 Supporting national adaptation planning  4 132 975  
3 Facilitating coherent adaptation action through the AC and the NWP  2 391 607  
4 Addressing loss and damage associated with climate change impacts  1 853 299  
 Nationally determined contributions/supporting implementation by Parties   
5 Supporting the implementation of activities relating to INDCs  and NDCs  2 358 089  
6 Organizing the technical dialogue on NDCs  2 798 219  
7 Supporting and facilitating the work of the TEC and the implementation of the Paris Agreement on 
technology -related matters  987 982  
8 Supporting the work of the PCCB and other capacity -building mandated activities, including the 
collaboration with relevant stakeholders within and outside the Convention  388 833  
9 Providing support upon request to Parties to strengthen national climate change legislation  90 400  
10 Supporting the  implementation of the Paris Agreement through regional collaboration centres  – 
11 Supporting and catalysing climate finance implementation  – 
12 Implementing activities of the Support Unit of the NDC Partnershipa 1 000 000  
 Measurement, reporting and verification/transparency regime   
13 Supporting activities relating to LULUCF: reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation, 
enhancement of forest carbon sinks, and the role of sinks in future mitigation actions  865 603  
14 Maintaining and  enhancing UNFCCC reporting and information systems to enable Party submissions, 
delivery of data -based reports, operation of tools used in the MRV process, and the warehousing and 
management of GHG data  2 446 347  
15 Strengthening the capacity of developi ng countries to participate in the MRV arrangements under the 
Convention and the transparency framework under the Paris Agreement  733 442  
16 Supporting activities relating to training of experts for technical reviews of developed country Parties’ 
submissions and technical analysis of developing country Parties’ submissions, roster of experts and 
meeting of lead reviewers  2 006 000  
17 Supporting the implementation of technical reviews of GHG inventories from Annex I Parties  1 095 580  
18 Supporting  the implementation of the work programme of the SCF and climate finance mandated 
activities  1 516 799  
19 Supporting the tracking and transparency of support, including the preparation of the biennial assessment 
and overview of climate finance flows  192 1 00 
20 Supporting the implementation of the IAR process for developed country Parties and the ICA process for 
developing country Parties  2 400 295  
21 Supporting the work of the CGE in assisting developing countries with the implementation of the 
MRV/transparency frameworks  3 018 050  
 Infrastructure support to implementation   
22 Connecting stakeholders  390 980  
23 Enhancing the value of UNFCCC data and reports for use by Parties  846 370  
 Kyoto Protocol   
24 Supporting the activities of the Compliance Committee  447 480  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.2  
 21 Project 
no. Activities to be undertaken by the secretariat  Supplementary 
requirements  
EUR  
25 Maintaining and enhancing the compilation and accounting database under the Kyoto Protocol  238 859  
26 Supporting and optimizing the operation of joint implementation  1 549 794  
 Catalysing climate action (Party and non-Party stakeholders)   
27 Boosting climate engagement via online media servicesb 2 464 638  
28 Cross -cutting communications and events management of non -Party stakeholder/climate action agenda  867 185  
29 Education and youth engagement – Action for Climate Empowerment  538 106  
30 Momentum for Change – global awards for accelerated climate ambitionc 2 753 833  
31 Strengthening the technical examination process on mitigation: supporting the implementation of  pre-
2020 mitigation -related activities stemming from decision 1/CP.21  920 064  
32 Supporting climate actionb 2 879 059  
33 Supporting stakeholder engagement in the UNFCCC process  1 127 833  
 Supporting the UNFCCC process   
34 Supporting activities relating to the impact of the implementation of response measures  909 300  
35 Assessing progress towards achieving the long -term goals of the Paris Agreement  633 137  
36 Strengthening gender mainstreaming in climate change action and the UNFCCC process and  the 
secretariat through coordination, collaboration, advocacy and capacity -building  797 916  
37 Strengthening the science –policy interface  323 180  
38 Supporting the intergovernmental negotiation processes on the development of modalities, procedures 
and guidelines for the transparency framework under the Paris Agreement  450 870  
 Modernizing information and communication technology infrastructure   
39 Strengthening UNFCCC cyber security  359 905  
40 Streamlining the production of UNFCCC documents  678 000  
41 Providing virtual meeting/workshop participation to UNFCCC stakeholders  787 610  
42 Providing a scalable, robust and secure cloud infrastructure for UNFCCC systems and data  751 450  
43 Empowering stakeholders to work remotely  570 650  
44 Developing internal communication tools  241 933  
 Total  53 484 419  
Abbreviations : AC = Adaptation Committee, CGE = Consultative Group of Experts on National Communications from Parties not 
included in Annex I to the Convention, GHG = greenhouse gas, ICA = international consultation and analysis, IAR = international 
assessment and review, INDC = intended nationally determined contribution, LULUCF = land use, land -use change and forestry, 
MRV = measurement, reporting and verification, NDC = nationally determi ned contribution, NWP = Nairobi work programme on 
impacts, vulnerability and adaptation to climate change, PCCB = Paris Committee on Capacity -building, SCF = Standing Committee 
on Finance, TEC = Technology Executive Committee.  
a   This project is being impleme nted under the NDC Partnership for the period 2017 –2018. Funding to cover the project’s 
activities in that period has already been made available to the secretariat.  
b   A project for which approximately 75 per cent of funding will be sought from non -Party sta keholders.  
c   A project for which up to 100 per cent of funding will be sought from non -Party stakeholders.  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.2  
22  Annex  
[English only]  
Indicative scale of contributions from Parties to the Convention for the 
biennium 2018 –2019a 
Party United  Nations  scale of 
assessments for 2018  UNFCCC adjusted  scale 
of assessments for 2018  UNFCCC adjusted scale of 
assessments for 2019  
Afghanistan  0.006  0.006  0.006  
Albania  0.008  0.008  0.008  
Algeria  0.161  0.157  0.157  
Andorra  0.006  0.006  0.006  
Angola  0.010  0.010  0.010  
Antigua and Barbuda  0.002  0.002  0.002  
Argentina  0.892  0.870  0.870  
Armenia  0.006  0.006  0.006  
Australia  2.337  2.278  2.278  
Austria  0.720  0.702  0.702  
Azerbaijan  0.060  0.058  0.058  
Bahamas  0.014  0.014  0.014  
Bahrain  0.044  0.043  0.043  
Bangladesh  0.010  0.010  0.010  
Barbados  0.007  0.007  0.007  
Belarus  0.056  0.055  0.055  
Belgium  0.885  0.863  0.863  
Belize  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Benin  0.003  0.003  0.003  
Bhutan  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Bolivia (Plurinational State of)  0.012  0.012  0.012  
Bosnia and Herzegovina  0.013  0.013  0.013  
Botswana  0.014  0.014  0.014  
Brazil  3.823  3.727  3.727  
Brunei Darussalam  0.029  0.028  0.028  
Bulgaria  0.045  0.044  0.044  
Burkina Faso  0.004  0.004  0.004  
Burundi  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Cabo Verde  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Cambodia  0.004  0.004  0.004  
Cameroon  0.010  0.010  0.010  
Canada  2.921  2.848  2.848  
Central African Republic  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Chad  0.005  0.005  0.005  
Chile  0.399  0.389  0.389  
China  7.921  7.722  7.722  
Colombia  0.322  0.314  0.314  
Comoros  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Congo  0.006  0.006  0.006  
Cook  Islands  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Costa Rica  0.047  0.046  0.046  
Côte d’Ivoire  0.009  0.009  0.009  
Croatia  0.099  0.097  0.097  
Cuba  0.065  0.063  0.063  
Cyprus  0.043  0.042  0.042  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.2  
 23 Party United  Nations  scale of 
assessments for 2018  UNFCCC adjusted  scale 
of assessments for 2018  UNFCCC adjusted scale of 
assessments for 2019  
Czechia  0.344  0.335  0.335  
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea  0.005  0.005  0.005  
Democratic Republic of the Congo  0.008  0.008  0.008  
Denmark  0.584  0.569  0.569  
Djibouti  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Dominica  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Dominican Republic  0.046  0.045  0.045  
Ecuador  0.067  0.065  0.065  
Egypt  0.152  0.148  0.148  
El Salvador  0.014  0.014  0.014  
Equatorial Guinea  0.010  0.010  0.010  
Eritrea  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Estonia  0.038  0.037  0.037  
Ethiopia  0.010  0.010  0.010  
European Union  2.500  2.500  2.500  
Fiji 0.003  0.003  0.003  
Finland  0.456  0.445  0.445  
France  4.859  4.737  4.737  
Gabon  0.017  0.017  0.017  
Gambia  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Georgia  0.008  0.008  0.008  
Germany  6.389  6.229  6.229  
Ghana  0.016  0.016  0.016  
Greece  0.471  0.459  0.459  
Grenada  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Guatemala  0.028  0.027  0.027  
Guinea  0.002  0.002  0.002  
Guinea -Bissau  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Guyana  0.002  0.002  0.002  
Haiti  0.003  0.003  0.003  
Honduras  0.008  0.008  0.008  
Hungary  0.161  0.157  0.157  
Iceland  0.023  0.022  0.022  
India  0.737  0.719  0.719  
Indonesia  0.504  0.491  0.491  
Iran (Islamic Republic of)  0.471  0.459  0.459  
Iraq 0.129  0.126  0.126  
Ireland  0.335  0.327  0.327  
Israel  0.430  0.419  0.419  
Italy 3.748  3.654  3.654  
Jamaica  0.009  0.009  0.009  
Japan  9.680  9.437  9.437  
Jordan  0.020  0.019  0.019  
Kazakhstan  0.191  0.186  0.186  
Kenya  0.018  0.018  0.018  
Kiribati  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Kuwait  0.285  0.278  0.278  
Kyrgyzstan  0.002  0.002  0.002  
Lao People’s Democratic Republic  0.003  0.003  0.003  
Latvia  0.050  0.049  0.049  
Lebanon  0.046  0.045  0.045  
Lesotho  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Liberia  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Libya  0.125  0.122  0.122  
Liechtenstein  0.007  0.007  0.007  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.2  
24  Party United  Nations  scale of 
assessments for 2018  UNFCCC adjusted  scale 
of assessments for 2018  UNFCCC adjusted scale of 
assessments for 2019  
Lithuania  0.072  0.070  0.070  
Luxembourg  0.064  0.062  0.062  
Madagascar  0.003  0.003  0.003  
Malawi  0.002  0.002  0.002  
Malaysia  0.322  0.314  0.314  
Maldives  0.002  0.002  0.002  
Mali  0.003  0.003  0.003  
Malta  0.016  0.016  0.016  
Marshall Islands  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Mauritania  0.002  0.002  0.002  
Mauritius  0.012  0.012  0.012  
Mexico  1.435  1.399  1.399  
Micronesia (Federated States of)  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Monaco  0.010  0.010  0.010  
Mongolia  0.005  0.005  0.005  
Montenegro  0.004  0.004  0.004  
Morocco  0.054  0.053  0.053  
Mozambique  0.004  0.004  0.004  
Myanmar  0.010  0.010  0.010  
Namibia  0.010  0.010  0.010  
Nauru  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Nepal  0.006  0.006  0.006  
Netherlands  1.482  1.445  1.445  
New Zealand  0.268  0.261  0.261  
Nicaragua  0.004  0.004  0.004  
Niger  0.002  0.002  0.002  
Nigeria  0.209  0.204  0.204  
Niue  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Norway  0.849  0.828  0.828  
Oman  0.113  0.110  0.110  
Pakistan  0.093  0.091  0.091  
Palau  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Panama  0.034  0.033  0.033  
Papua New Guinea  0.004  0.004  0.004  
Paraguay  0.014  0.014  0.014  
Peru 0.136  0.133  0.133  
Philippines  0.165  0.161  0.161  
Poland  0.841  0.820  0.820  
Portugal  0.392  0.382  0.382  
Qatar  0.269  0.262  0.262  
Republic of Korea  2.039  1.988  1.988  
Republic of Moldova  0.004  0.004  0.004  
Romania  0.184  0.179  0.179  
Russian Federation  3.088  3.011  3.011  
Rwanda  0.002  0.002  0.002  
Saint Kitts and Nevis  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Saint Lucia  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Samoa  0.001  0.001  0.001  
San Marino  0.003  0.003  0.003  
Sao Tome and Principe  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Saudi Arabia  1.146  1.117  1.117  
Senegal  0.005  0.005  0.005  
Serbia  0.032  0.031  0.031  
Seychelles  0.001  0.001  0.001  FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.2  
 25 Party United  Nations  scale of 
assessments for 2018  UNFCCC adjusted  scale 
of assessments for 2018  UNFCCC adjusted scale of 
assessments for 2019  
Sierra Leone  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Singapore  0.447  0.436  0.436  
Slovakia  0.160  0.156  0.156  
Slovenia  0.084  0.082  0.082  
Solomon Islands  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Somalia  0.001  0.001  0.001  
South Africa  0.364  0.355  0.355  
South Sudan  0.003  0.003  0.003  
Spain  2.443  2.382  2.382  
Sri Lanka  0.031  0.030  0.030  
State of Palestine  0.007  0.007  0.007  
Sudan  0.010  0.010  0.010  
Suriname  0.006  0.006  0.006  
Swaziland  0.002  0.002  0.002  
Sweden  0.956  0.932  0.932  
Switzerland  1.140  1.111  1.111  
Syrian Arab Republic  0.024  0.023  0.023  
Tajikistan  0.004  0.004  0.004  
Thailand  0.291  0.284  0.284  
The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia  0.007  0.007  0.007  
Timor -Leste  0.003  0.003  0.003  
Togo  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Tonga  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Trinidad and Tobago  0.034  0.033  0.033  
Tunisia  0.028  0.027  0.027  
Turkey  1.018  0.992  0.992  
Turkmenistan  0.026  0.025  0.025  
Tuvalu  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Uganda  0.009  0.009  0.009  
Ukraine  0.103  0.100  0.100  
United Arab Emirates  0.604  0.589  0.589  
United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland  4.463  4.351  4.351  
United Republic of Tanzania  0.010  0.010  0.010  
United States of America  22.000  21.448  21.448  
Uruguay  0.079  0.077  0.077  
Uzbekistan  0.023  0.022  0.022  
Vanuatu  0.001  0.001  0.001  
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)  0.571  0.557  0.557  
Viet Nam  0.058  0.057  0.057  
Yemen  0.010  0.010  0.010  
Zambia  0.007  0.007  0.007  
Zimbabwe  0.004  0.004  0.004  
Total  102.509  100.000  100.000  
a   Pursuant to decision 15/CP.1, annex I, paragraph 7(a), the UNFCCC scale of indicative contributions may be adjusted following  
the adoption by the United Nations General Assembly of the United Nations scale of assessments for the period 2019 –2021.  
12th plenary meeting  
17 November 201 7FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.2  
26    Decision 22/CP.23  
  Dates and venues of future sessions  
 The Conference of the Parties , 
 Recalling  Article 7, paragraph 4, of the Convention,  
 Also recalling  United Nations General Assembly resolution 40/243 of 18 December 
1985 on the pattern of conferences,  
 Further recalling  rule 22, paragraph 1, of the draft rules of procedure being applied  
regarding the rotation of the office of President among the five regional groups,  
 Recalling  rule 3 of the draft rules of procedure being applied, which provides that 
the sessions of the Conference of the Parties shall take place at the seat of the secret ariat 
unless the Conference of the Parties decides otherwise or other appropriate arrangements 
are made by the secretariat in consultation with Parties,  
 Also recalling  decision 24/CP.22, paragraphs 7 –11, regarding the acceptance of the 
offer of the Govern ment of Poland to host the sessions taking place in the second sessional 
period  of 2018, from 3 to 14 December,  
I. Dates and venues of future sessions  
A. 2018  
1. Notes  that, in keeping with the principle of rotation among the regional groups, the 
President to be el ected at the sessions to be held from 3 to 14 December 2018 would come 
from the Eastern European States;  
2. Express es its appreciation  for the nomination received from the Eastern European 
States of Mr. Jan Szyszko  to serve as President at the sessions referred to in paragraph 1 
above;  
3. Notes  the decision of the Government of Poland to host the sessions referred to in 
paragraph 1 above in Katowice;  
4. Reiterates its request to the Executive Secretary to make the necessary arrangements 
for convening the sessi ons referred to in paragraph 1 above;  
B. 2019  
5. Notes  that, in keeping with the principle of rotation among the regional groups, the 
President to be elected at the sessions to be held from 11 to 22 November 2019 would come 
from the Latin American and Caribbean States;  
6. Invites  Parties to undertake further consultations on the hosting of the sessions 
referred to in paragraph 5 above;  
7. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation, at its forty -eighth session (April –
May 2018), to consider the issue of the host of the sessions referred to in paragraph 5 above  
and to recommend a draft decision on the matter for consideration and adoption by the 
Conference of the Parties at its twenty -fourth session  (December 2018) ; FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.2  
 27 C. 2020  
8. Notes  that, in keeping with the principle of ro tation among the regional groups, the 
President to be elected at the sessions to be held from 9 to 20 November 2020 would come 
from the Western European and other States;  
9. Invites  Parties to undertake further consultations on the hosting of the sessions 
referred to in paragraph 8 above;  
10. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation, at its forty -eighth session, to 
consider the issue of the host of the sessions referred to in paragraph 8 above and to 
recommend a draft decision on the matter for consideratio n and adoption by the Conference 
of the Parties at its twenty -fourth session;  
II. Calendar of meetings of the Convention, Kyoto Protocol and 
Paris Agreement bodies  
11. Decides  to adopt the following dates for the sessional periods in 2022:  
(a) First sessional period: Monday, 6 June, to Thursday , 16 June;  
(b) Second sessional period: Monday, 7 November, to Friday, 18 November.  
13th plenary meeting  
18 November 201 7FCCC/CP/2017/11/Add.2  
28    Resolution 1/CP.23  
  Expression of gratitude to the Government of the Federal 
Republic of Germany and the people of the city of Bonn  
 Resolution submitted by Fiji 
 The Conference of the Parties, the Conferenc e of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement , 
 Having met in Bonn from 6 to 17 November 2017 at the seat of the secretariat,  
1. Express their profound gratitude to the Government of the Federal Republic of 
Germany for having made it possible for the twenty -third session of the Conference of the 
Parties, the thirteenth session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the 
Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the second part of the first session of the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement to be held in Bonn;  
2. Request the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany to convey to the city 
and people of Bonn the gratitude of the Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the 
Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the P aris Agreement for the hospitality 
and warmth extended to the participants.  
16th plenary meeting  
18 November 2017  
     
 
GE.22 -03273(E)  
Conference of the Parties  
Report of the Conference of the Parties on its twenty -sixth 
session, held in Glasgow from 31 October to  
13 November 2021 
Addendum  
Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -
sixth session  
Contents  
Decision s adopted by the Conference of the Parties  
Decision  Page 
1/CP.26 Glasgow Climate Pact  ................................................................................................  2 
2/CP.26 Report of the Adaptation Committee (for 2019, 2020 and 2021)  ..............................  9 
3/CP.26 National adaptation plans  ...........................................................................................  10 
4/CP.26 Long- term climate finance  .........................................................................................  12 
5/CP.26 Matters relating to the Standing Committee on Finance  ............................................  14 
6/CP.26 Report of the Green Climate Fund to the Conference of the Parties and guidance to  
 the Green Climate Fund  .............................................................................................  48 
7/CP.26 Report of the Global Environment Facility to the Conference of the Part ies and  
 guidance to the Global Environment Facility ............................................................  51 
8/CP.26 Compilation and synthesis of, and summary report on the in -session workshop on,  
 biennial communications of information related to Article 9, paragraph 5, of the  
Paris Agreement  .........................................................................................................  54 
9/CP.26 Enhancing climate technology development and transfer through the Technology  
Mechanism  .................................................................................................................  55 
10/CP .26 Review of the constitution of the Advisory Board of the Climate Technology  
 Centre and Network  ...................................................................................................  58 
11/CP.26 Second review of the Climate Technolog y Centre and Network  ...............................  61 
    
United Nations  FCCC /CP/2021/ 12/Add.1  
 
 
 
  
Distr.: General 
8 March  2022 
 Original: English  FCCC/CP/2021/ 12/Add.1  
2    Decision 1/CP.26  
  Glasgow Climate Pact  
The Conference of the Parties , 
 Recalling decisions 1/CP.19, 1/CP.20, 1/CP.21, 1/CP.22, 1/CP.23, 1/CP.24 and 
1/CP.25,  
 Noting decisions 1/CMP.16 and 1/CMA.3,   
 Recognizing the role of multilateralism and the Convention, including its processes 
and principles, and the importance of international cooperation in addressing climate change 
and its impacts, in the context of sustainable development and efforts to eradicate poverty ,  
 Acknowledging the devastating impacts of the coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic and 
the importance of ensuring a sustainable, resilient and inclusive global recovery, showing solidarity particularly with developing country Parties,  
 Recognizing the imp ortant advances made through the UNFCCC multilateral process 
since 1994,  including in the context of the Convention, the Kyoto Protocol and the Paris 
Agreement,  
 Acknowledging that climate change is a common concern of humankind,  Parties 
should, when taki ng action to address climate change, respect, promote and consider their 
respective obligations on human rights, the right to health, the rights of indigenous peoples, local communities, migrants, children, persons with disabilities and people in vulnerabl e 
situations and the right to development, as well as gender equality, empowerment of women and intergenerational equity,  
 Noting the importance of ensuring the integrity of all ecosystems, including in forests, 
the ocean and the cryosphere, and the prote ction of biodiversity, recognized by some cultures 
as Mother Earth, and also noting the importance for some of the concept of ‘climate justice’, 
when taking action to address climate change,  
 Expressing appreciation to the Heads of State and Government who participated in 
the World Leaders Summit in Glasgow and for the increased targets and actions announced and the commitments made to work together and with non- Party stakeholders to accelerate 
sectoral action by 2030,  
 Recognizing the important role of indigenous peoples, local communities and civil 
society, including youth and children, in addressing and responding to climate change and highlighting the urgent need for multilevel and cooperative action,  
 Recognizing the interlinked global crises of clima te change and biodiversity loss, and 
the critical role of protecting, conserving and restoring nature and ecosystems in delivering 
benefits for climate adaptation and mitigation, while ensuring social and environmental 
safeguards , 
I. Science  and urgency  
1. Recog nizes the importance of the best available science for effective climate action 
and policymaking;  
2. Welcomes the contribution of Working Group I to the Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change Sixth Assessment Report1 and the recent global and regional reports on the 
state of the climate from the World Meteorological Organization and invites the 
 
 1 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change . 2021. Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science 
Basis. Contribution of Working Group I to the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change . V Masson -Delmotte, P Zhai, A Pirani, et al. (eds.). Cambridge: Cambridge 
University Press. Available at https://www.ipc c.ch/report/ar6/wg1/ .  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
 3 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change to present its forthcoming reports to the 
Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technol ogical Advice in 2022;   
3. Expresses alarm and utmost concern that human activities have caused around 1.1 °C 
of global warming to date and that impacts are already being felt in  every region ; 
4. Stresses the urgency of enhancing ambition and action in relation to mitigation 
adaptation and finance in this critical decade to address gaps between  current efforts and 
pathways in pursuit of the ultimate objective of the Convention and its long -term global goal ; 
II. Adaptation  
5. Notes with serious concern  the findings from the contribution of Working Group I to 
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Sixth Assessment Report, including that climate and weather extremes and their adverse impacts on people and nature will continue 
to increase with every  additional increment of rising temperatures ; 
6. Emphasizes the urgency of scaling up action and support, including finance, capacity-
building and technology transfer, to enhance adaptive capacity, strengthen resilience and 
reduce vulnerability to climate cha nge in line with the best available science, taking into 
account the priorities and needs of developing country Parties ; 
7. Welcomes the national adaptation plans submitted to date, which enhance the 
understanding and implementation of adaptation actions and priorities ; 
8. Urges Parties to further integrate adaptation into local, national and regional planning;  
9. Invites the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change to present to the Conference 
of the Parties at its twenty -seventh session  (November 2022) the findings from the 
contribution of Working Group II to its Sixth Assessment Report, including those relevant to assessing adaptation needs, and calls upon the research community to further the understanding of global, regional and local  impacts of climate change, response options and 
adaptation needs ; 
III. Adaptation finance  
10. Notes with concern  that the current provision of climate finance for adaptation 
remains insufficient to respond to worsening climate change impacts in developing country Parties;  
11. Urges developed country Parties to urgently and significantly scale up their provision 
of climate finance, technology transfer and capacity -building for adaptation  so as to respond 
to the needs of developing country Parties as part of a global eff ort, including for the 
formulation and implementation of national adaptation plans ; 
12. Recognizes the importance of the adequacy and predictability of adaptation finance, 
including the value of the Adaptation Fund in delivering dedicated support  for adaptation ; 
13. Welcomes the recent pledges made by many developed country Parties to increase 
their provision of climate finance to support adaptation in developing country Parties in 
response to their growing needs, including contributions made to the Adapta tion Fund and 
the Least Developed Countries Fund, which represent significant progress compared with 
previous efforts ; 
14. Calls upon multilateral development banks, other financial institutions and the private 
sector to enhance finance mobilization in order t o deliver the scale of resources needed to 
achieve climate plans, particularly for adaptation, and encourages Parties to continue to 
explore innovative approaches and instruments for mobilizing finance for adaptation from private sources ; FCCC/CP/2021/ 12/Add.1  
4  IV. Mitigation  
15. Reaffirms the long- term global goal to hold the increase in the global average 
temperature to well below 2 °C above pre -industrial levels and to pursue efforts to limit the 
temperature increase to 1.5  °C above pre -industrial levels, recognizing that this would 
significantly reduce the risks and impacts of climate change ;  
16. Recognizes that the impacts of climate change will be much lower at the temperature 
increase of 1.5  °C compared with 2 °C and resolves  to pursue efforts to limit the temperature 
increase to 1.5  °C; 
17. Recognizes  that limiting global warming to 1.5  °C requires rapid, deep and sustained 
reductions in global greenhouse gas emissions, including reducing global carbon dioxide 
emissions by 45 per cent by 2030 relative to the 2010 level and to net zero around mid -
century as well as deep reductions in other greenhouse gases;  
18. Also recognizes that this requires accelerated action in this critical decade, on the basis 
of the best available scientific knowledge and equity, reflecting common but differentiated  
responsibilities and respective capabilities and in the context of sustainable development and efforts to eradicate poverty;  
19. Invites Parties to consider further actions to reduce by 2030 non- carbon dioxide 
greenhouse gas emissions, including methane ; 
20. Calls upon Parties to accelerate the development, deployment and dissemination of 
technologies, and the adoption of policies, to transition towards low -emission energy 
systems, including by rapidly scaling up the deployment of clean power generation and energ y efficiency measures, including accelerating efforts towards the phasedown of 
unabated coal power and phase -out of inefficient fossil fuel subsidies, while providing 
targeted support to the poorest and most vulnerable in line with national circumstances  and 
recognizing the need for support towards a just transition;  
21. Emphasizes the importance of protecting, conserving and restoring nature and 
ecosystems, including forests and other terrestrial and marine ecosystems, to achieve the long- term global goal of t he Convention by acting as sinks and reservoirs of greenhouse gases 
and protecting biodiversity, while ensuring social and environmental safeguards;  
V. Finance, technology transfer and capacity -building for 
mitigation and a daptation  
22. Urges developed country Parties to provide enhanced support, including through 
financial resources, technology transfer and capacity -building, to assist developing country 
Parties with respect to both mitigation and adaptation, in continuation of their existing obligations under the Convention, and encourages other Parties to provide or continue to 
provide such support voluntarily;  
23. Notes with concern the growing needs of developing country Parties, in particular due 
to the increasing impacts of climate change and  increased indebtedness as a consequence of 
the coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic ; 
24. Welcomes the first report on the determination of the needs of developing country 
Parties related to implementing the Convention and the Paris Agreement
2 and the fourth 
(2020) Biennial Assessment and Overview of Climate Finance Flows3 by the Standing 
Committee on Finance;  
25. Emphasizes the need to mobilize climate  finance from all sources to reach the level 
needed to achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement, including signific antly increasing 
support for developing country Parties, beyond USD 100 billion per year ; 
 
 2 See document FCCC/CP/2021/10/Add.2– FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/7/Add.2.  
 3 See document FCCC/CP/2021/10/Add.1– FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/7/Add.1.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
 5 26. Notes with deep regret that the goal of developed country Parties to mobilize jointly 
USD 100 billion per year by 2020 in the context of meaningful mitigation actions and 
transparency on implementation has not yet been met and welcomes the increased pledges 
made by many develope d country Parties and the Climate Finance Delivery Plan: Meeting 
the US$100 Billion Goal4 and the collective actions contained therein ; 
27. Urges developed country Parties to fully deliver on the USD 100 billion goal urgently 
and through to 2025 and emphasize s the importance of transparency in the implementation 
of their pledges ; 
28. Urges the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism, multilateral development 
banks and other financial institutions to further scale up investments in climate action and calls fo r a continued increase in the scale and effectiveness of climate finance from all 
sources globally, including grants and other highly concessional forms of finance ; 
29. Re-emphasizes the need for scaled -up financial resources to take into account the 
needs of those countries particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change and 
in this regard encourages  relevant multilateral institutions to consider how climate 
vulnerabilities should be reflected in the provision and mobilization of concessional financial resources and other forms of support, including s pecial drawing rights ;  
30. Emphasizes the challenges faced by many developing country Parties in accessing 
finance and encourages further efforts to enhance access to finance, including by the 
operating entities of the Financial Mechanism ; 
31. Notes the specific concerns raised with regard to eligibility and ability to access 
concessional forms of  climate finance and re-emphasizes the im portance of the provision of 
scaled -up financial resources, taking into account the needs of developing country Parties 
that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change;  
32. Encourages relevant providers of financial support to consider how vulnerability to 
the adverse effects of climate change could be reflected in the provision and mobilization of concessional financial resources and how they could simplify and enhance access to finance ; 
33. Acknowledges the progress made on capacity -building, particularly in relation to 
enhancing the coherence and coordination of capacity -building activities towards the 
implementation of the Convention and the Paris Agreement ; 
34. Recognizes the need to continue supporting developing country Parties in identifying 
and addressing both current and emerging capacity- building gaps and needs, and to catalyse 
climate action and solutions to respond;  
35. Welcomes  the joint annual reports of the Technology Executive Committee and the 
Climate Technology Centre and Network for 2020 and 2021
5 and invites  the two bodies to 
strengthen their collaboration;  
36. Emphasizes the importance of strengthening cooperative action on technology 
development and transfer for t he implementation of mitigation and adaptation action, 
including accelerating, encouraging and enabling innovation, and the importance of predictable, sustainable and adequate funding from diverse sources for the Technology 
Mechanism ; 
VI. Loss and damage6 
37. Acknowledges that climate change has already caused and will increasingly cause loss 
and damage and that, as temperatures rise, impacts from climate and weather extremes, as 
 
 4 Available at https://ukcop26.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/Climate -Finance-Delivery -Plan -1.pdf . 
 5 FCCC/SB/2020/4 and FCCC/SB/2021/5.  
 6 It is noted that discussions related to the governance of the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss 
and Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts did not produce an outcome; this is without 
prejudice to further consideration of this matter.   FCCC/CP/2021/ 12/Add.1  
6  well as slow onset events, will pose an ever -greater social, economic and environment al 
threat ; 
38. Also acknowledges the important role of a broad range of stakeholders at the local, 
national and regional level, including indigenous peoples and local communities, in averting, 
minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change ;
 
39. Reiterates the urgency of scaling up action and support, as appropriate, including 
finance, technology transfer and capacity -building, for implementing approaches to  averting, 
minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change in developing country Parties that are particularly vulnerable to these effects ;  
40. Urges developed country Parties, the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism, 
United Nations entities and intergovernmental organizations and other bil ateral and 
multilateral institutions, including non -governmental organizations and private sources, to 
provide enhanced and additional support for activities addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change;  
41. Recognizes the importance of demand- driven technical assistance in building capacity 
to implement approaches to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change;  
42. Welcomes the further operationalization of the Santia go network for averting, 
minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change, including the agreement on its functions and process for further developing its institutional arrangements ; 
43. Endorses  paragraphs 67–70 and 73 –74 of decision 1/CMA.3
;7 
44. Acknowledges the importance of coherent action to respond to the scale of needs 
caused by the adverse impacts of climate change;  
45. Resolves to strengthen partnerships between developing and developed countries, 
funds, technical agencies, civil society and communities to enhance understanding of how 
approaches to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage can be improved;  
VII. Implementation  
46. Recalls that the round tables among Parties and non- Party stakeholders on pre -2020 
implementation and ambition held in 2018, 2019 and 2020 helped to highlight and enhance understanding of the efforts of and challenges faced by Parties in relation to action and support in the pre -2020 period, as well as of the wor k of the constituted bodies in that period ; 
47. Strongly urges all Parties that have not yet done so to meet any outstanding pledges 
under the Convention as soon as possible ; 
48. Welcomes the action taken to unlock the potential for sectoral action to contribute t o 
fulfilling and implementing national targets, particularly in emission -intensive sectors ;  
49. Recognizes the need to take into consideration the concerns of Parties with economies 
most affected by the impacts of response measures, particularly developing co untry Parties, 
in line with Article 4, paragraphs 8 and 10, of the Convention;  
50. Also recognizes the importance of protecting, conserving and restoring ecosystems to 
deliver crucial services, including acting as sinks and reservoirs of greenhouse gases , 
reducing vulnerability to climate change impacts and supporting sustainable livelihoods, 
including for indigenous peoples and local communities ; 
51. Encourages Parties to take an integrated approach to addressing the issues referred to 
in paragraph 50  above in national and local policy and planning decisions ; 
 
 7 It is noted that discussions related to the governance of the Warsaw International Mechanism on Loss 
and Damage associ ated with Climate Change Impacts did not produce an outcome ; this is without 
prejudice to further consideration of this matter.   FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
 7 52. Recognizes the need to ensure just transitions that promote sustainable development 
and eradication of poverty, and the creation of decent work and quality jobs, including 
through making financial flows consistent with a pathway towards low  greenhouse gas 
emission and climate -resilient development, including through deployment and transfer of 
technology, and provision of support to developing country Parties ; 
VIII.  Collaboration  
53. Recognizes the importance of international collaboration on innovative climate action, 
including technological advancement, across all actors of society, sectors and regions, in 
contributing to progress towards the objective of the Convention and the goals of the Paris 
Agreement;  
54. Recalls Article 3, paragraph 5, of the Convention and the importance of cooperation 
to address climate change and support sustainable economic growth and development ;  
55. Recognizes the important role of non- Party stakeholders, including civil society, 
indigenous peo ples, local communities, youth, children, local and regional governments and 
other stakeholders, in contributing to progress towards the objective of the Convention and 
the goals of the Paris Agreement ; 
56. Welcomes the improvement of the Marrakech Partnership  for Global Climate Action8 
for enhancing ambition, the leadership and actions of the h igh-level champions, and the work 
of the secretariat on the Non -State Actor Zone for Climate Action platform to support 
accountability and track progress of voluntary i nitiatives ; 
57. Also welcomes the high- level communiqué9 on the regional climate weeks and 
encourages the continuation of regional climate weeks where Parties and non -Party 
stakeholders can strengthen their credible and durable response to climate change at the regional level ; 
58. Welcomes the informal summary reports by the Chair of the Subsidiary Body for 
Scientific and Technological Advice on the ocean and climate change dialogue to consider 
how to strengthen adaptation and mitigation action and on the dialogue on the relationship between land and climate change adaptation related matters ; 
59. Invites Parties to  submit views on how to enhance climate action on land under the 
existing UNFCCC programmes and activities in paragraph 75 of the report on the dialogue on the relationship between land and climate change adaptation related matters referred to in paragraph 58 above  and requests the Chair of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and 
Technological Advice to prepare an informal summary report thereon and make it available to the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -seventh session ; 
60. Invites the relevant work pr ogrammes and constituted bodies under the UNFCCC to 
consider how to integrate and strengthen ocean -based action in their existing mandates and 
workplans and to report on these activities within the existing reporting processes, as appropriate ;
 
61. Also invites the Chair of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice 
to hold an annual dialogue, starting at the fifty- sixth session of the Subsidiary Body for 
Scientific and Technological Advice (June 2022), to strengthen ocean -based acti on and to 
prepare an informal summary report thereon and make it available to the Conference of the Parties at its subsequent session ; 
62. Urges Parties to swiftly begin implementing the Glasgow work programme on Action 
for Climate Empowerment, respecting, promoting and considering their respective 
obligations on human rights, as well as gender equality and empowerment of women;  
63. Expresses appreciation for the outcomes of the sixteenth Conference of Youth, 
organized by the constituency of children and youth non- governmental organizations and 
 
 8 Available at https://unfccc.int/sites/default/files/resource/Improved%20Marrakech%20Partnership  
%202021 -2025.pdf . 
 9 Available at https://unfccc.int/regional-climate-weeks/rcw -2021-cop26 -communique .  FCCC/CP/2021/ 12/Add.1  
8  held in Glasgow in October  2021, and the “Youth4Climate2021: Driving Ambition” event 
hosted by Italy in Milan, Italy, in September 2021;  
64. Urges Parties and stakeholders to ensure meaningful youth participation and 
representati on in multilateral, national and local decision -making processes, including under 
the Convention and the Paris Agreement ; 
65. Invites future Presidencies of the Conference of the Parties, with the support of the 
secretariat, to facilitate the organization of a n annual youth -led climate forum for dialogue 
between Parties and youth in collaboration with the UNFCCC children and youth 
constituency and other youth organizations with a view to contributing to the implementation 
of the Glasgow work programme on Action for Climate Empowerment;  
66. Emphasizes the important role of indigenous peoples’ and local communities’ culture 
and knowledge in effective action on climate change and urges Parties to actively involve 
indigenous peoples and local communities in designing and implementing climate action and to engage with the second three -year workplan for implementing the functions of the Local 
Communities and Indigenous Peoples Platform, for 2022– 2024;  
67. Expresses its recognition  of the important role observer organizat ions play, including 
the nine non- governmental organization constituencies, in sharing their knowledge, and their 
calls to see ambitious action to meet the objectives of the Convention and in collaborat ing 
with Parties to that end ; 
68. Encourages Parties to in crease the full, meaningful and equal participation of women 
in climate action and to ensure gender -responsive implementation and means of 
implementation, which are vital for raising ambition and achieving climate goals ; 
69. Calls upon Parties to strengthen their implementation of the enhanced Lima work 
programme on gender and its gender action plan;
10 
70. Takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in this decision ;  
71. Requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources . 
12th plenary meeting  
13 Novemb er 2021  
 
 
 10 See decision 3/CP.25, annex.   FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
 9   Decision 2/CP.26  
  Report of the Adaptation Committee (for 2019, 2020 and 
2021)  
The Conference of the  Parties ,  
1. Welcomes  the work of the Adaptation Committee in 2019, 2020 and 2021 and takes 
note of the Adaptation Committee’s 2019, 2020 and 2021 reports;1 
2. Welcomes  the technical support and guidance provided by the Adaptation Committee 
for enhancing implementation of adapta tion action and support and underlines  the 
importance of balanced, clear and relevant recommendations for all workstream activities in  
its workplans ; 
3. Welcomes the flexible workplan of the Adaptation Committee for 2022 –2024;2 
4. Invites  the Adaptation Committee to improve its efforts to measure the outreach of its 
events and publications by including, in its flexible workplan, the collection of statistics 
disaggregated by gender and region on  its awareness -raising, outreach and information-
sharing efforts such as events and publications;  
5. Requests  the Adaptation Committee to resume holding its regular meetings and events 
in person while offering the option of virtual attendance to ensur e inclusive participation, 
including by observers, while acknowledging the challenges posed by online participation;  
6. Invites  Parties to identify  one or more adaptation contact points through their 
UNFCCC national focal points with a view to enhancing the dissemination  of information 
between Parties and the Adaptation Committee and the Least Developed Countries Expert Group, as well as other releva nt organizations and programme partners, such as partners of 
the Nairobi work programme on impacts, vulnerability and adaptation to climate change , 
including on Parties’ efforts to formulate and implement national adaptation plans;  
7. Recalls  decision 5/CP.22,  mandating the review at its twenty -seventh session of the 
progress, effectiveness and performance of the Adaptation Committee;  
8. Invites the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement at its fourth session (Novem ber 2022), as provided  in decision 11/CMA.1,  to 
participate in the review referred to in para graph  7 above as it relates to the Paris Agreement ; 
9. Welcomes the efforts of Parties that made submissions
3 on the progress, effectiveness 
and performance of the Adaptation Committee  and takes note  of their relevance for the 
review referred to in paragraph 7  above;  
10. Reiterates its invitation4 to Parties to submit views on th e progress, effectiveness and 
performa nce of the Adaptation Committee  and on the review process, with a view to 
informing that process, via the submission portal no later than three months prior to the twenty -seventh session of the Conference of the Parties;  
11. Encourages  Parties to make availabl e sufficient resources for the successful and 
timely implementation of the flexible  workplan of the Adaptation Committee for 2022 –2024 . 
12
th plenary meeting  
13 Novemb er 2021
 
 1  FCCC/SB/2019/3, FCCC/SB/2020 /2 and FCCC/SB/2021/6.  
 2 FCCC/SB/2021/6, annex.  
 3 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx . 
  4 See decision 5/CP.22, para. 12.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
10    Decision 3/CP.26  
  National adaptation plans  
The Conference of the  Parties ,  
Recalling  decisions 1/CP.16, 3/CP.17, 5/CP.17, 12/CP.18, 18/CP.19, 3/CP.20, 
1/CP.21, 4/CP.21, 6/CP.22, 8/CP.24 and 7/CP.25,  
 Also recalling the objective of the process to formulate and implement national 
adaptation plans to reduce vulnerability to the impacts of climate change by building adaptive 
capacity and increasing resilience in developing countries and recognizing the role of the 
process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans in making progress towards 
the global goal on adaptation,  
 Taking note  of the potential capacity of the Open NAP initiative of the Least 
Developed Countries Expert Group to accelerate the for mulation and implementation of 
national adaptation plans in the least developed countries and inviting  other developing 
countries to take part in this initiative,  
 Recognizing the continued support of the Adaptation Committee, the Least Developed 
Countries  Expert Group and the secretariat to developing country Parties on the process to 
formulate and implement national adaptation plans, despite the limitations posed by the 
coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic and its impacts on the formulation and implementatio n 
of national adaptation plans,   
1. Welcomes the submissions from Albania, Armenia, Cambodia, Kuwait, Nepal, Peru, 
South Africa, South Sudan, Timor -Leste and Tonga of their national adaptation plans in NAP 
Central,1 bringing the total number of submitted nat ional adaptation plans to 30;  
2. Requests the Subsidiary Body for Implementation, at its sixtieth session (June 2024), 
to initiate the assessment of progress in the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans referred to in decision 8/ CP.24, paragraph 19, and to make  recommendations 
on this matter for consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -
ninth session (November 2024);  
3. Decides on the following actions and steps necessary for the Subsidiary Body for 
Implement ation to initiate the assessment referred to in paragraph 2 above:   
(a) Invite Parties and relevant organizations to submit to the secretariat, by 
1 February 2024, information on their progress towards the achievement of the objectives of 
the process to formul ate and implement national adaptation plans, as well as on their 
experience, best practices, lessons learned, gaps and needs, and support provided and received;  
(b) Invite  Parties to provide information, guided by a questionnaire,
2 on an 
ongoing basis through NAP Central; 
(c) Request  the secretariat to prepare a synthesis report on the progress towards 
the achievement of the objectives of the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans, as well as on experience, best practices, lessons learned, g aps and needs, 
and support provided and received, taking into account information contained in national reports under the Convention, the information referred to in paragraph 3(a –b) above, 
information from relevant events, including the NAP Expos, and information from other relevant sources;  
(d) Request  the Least Developed Countries Expert Group, in collaboration with 
the Adaptation Committee, to organize a meeting of Party experts, at which the report 
 
 1 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/NAPC/Pages/national-adaptation -plans.aspx . 
 2 https://www4.u nfccc.int/sites/NAPC/Pages/assessingprogress.aspx . FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
 11 referred to in paragraph 3(c) above would be considered, w ith a view to providing a summary 
of progress in the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans;  
(e) Request  the Least Developed Countries Expert Group, in collaboration with 
the Adaptation Committee and with the support of the secretariat, to prepare a report on the 
meeting referred to in paragraph 3(d) above, for consideration by the Subsidiary Body for Implem entation at its sixtieth session in its assessment of progress in the process to formulate 
and implement national adaptation plans;  
4. Also decides that the assessment referred to in paragraph 2 above should take into 
account all the guiding principles of the  process to formulate and implement national 
adaptation plans contained in decision 5/CP.17, paragraph 3;  
5. Requests the constituted bodies and programmes under the Convention to continue to 
provide information on their activities relevant to the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans as part of the annual progress report on national adaptation plans .  
10
th plenary meeting  
11 Novemb er 2021FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
12    Decision 4/CP.26  
  Long -term climate finance  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  Articles 4 and 11 of the Convention,  
Also recalling  decisions 1/CP.16, paragraphs 2, 4 and 97 –101, 1/CP.17, 2/CP.17, 
paragraphs 126– 132, 4/CP.18, 3/CP.19, 5/CP.20, 1/CP.21, 5/CP.21, 7/CP.22, 6/CP.23, 
3/CP.24, 11/CP.25, paragraph 10, and 5/CMA.2, paragraph 10,  
1. Recalls the commitment of developed country Par ties, in the context of meaningful 
mitigation actions and transparency on implementation, to a goal of mobilizing jointly 
USD  100 billion per year by 2020 to address the needs of developing country Parties in 
accordance with decision 1/CP.16;  
2. Welcomes  the recent pledges made to the Adaptation Fund (totalling  USD 356 
million) and  to the Least Developed Countries Fund (totalling USD 605.3  million);  
3. Notes the continued efforts of developed country Parties towards reaching the goal of 
mobilizing jointly USD 100 billion per year by 2020, in the context of meaningful mitigation action and transparency on implementation, in accordance with decision 1/CP.16;  
4. Notes with serious concern  the gap in relation  to the fulfilment of the goal of  
developed country Parties to mobilize jointly USD 100 billion per year by 2020, including due to challenges in mobilizing finance from private sources;   
5. Notes that a substantial component of climate finance from  developed country Parties 
to developing country Parties is provided th rough public finance and urges developed 
country Parties to continue to scale up  climate  finance towards achieving th e goal to mobilize 
jointly USD 100 billion per year by 2020;  
6. Acknowledges the need to support developing country Parties in implementing the 
Convention;  
7. Recalls  that, in accordance with decision 1/CP.21, paragraph 53, developed c ountr ies 
reaffirm  the continu ation of  their existing collective mobilization goal through 2025 in the 
context of meaningful mitigation action and transparency on implementation;  
8. Notes  with appreciation the first report of the Standing Committee on Finance on the 
determination of the needs of developing country Parties related to implementing the 
Convention and the Paris Agreement
1 and the fourth (2020) Biennial Assessment and 
Overview  of Climate Finance Flows;2 
9. Notes recent pledges  to increase climate finance,  acknowledges  that some developed 
country Parties have already doubled the ir provision of adaptation finance and requests  other 
developed country Parties to significantly  increase their provision of adaptation finance , 
including by, as appropriate, considering doubling adaptation finance with the  aim of 
achiev ing a balance between mitigation and adaptation;  
10. Welcomes  the progress of Parties’ efforts to strengthen their domestic enabling 
environments in order to attract climate  financ e and requests Parties to continue to enhance 
their enabling environments and policy frameworks to facilitate the mobilization and effective deployment of climate finance in accordance with decision 3/CP.19;
3 
11. Emphasizes  the importance of  an effective and coherent climate finance landscape in 
maximizing access to climate finance in meeting the needs and priorities of developing country Parties ; 
12. Request s the Standing Committee on Finance to continue its work on definitions of 
climate finance, taking into account the submissions received from Parties on this matter,  
 
 1 See document FCCC/CP/2021/10/Add.2−FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/7/Add.2.  
 2 See document FCCC/CP/2021/10/Add.1−FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/7/Add.1.  
 3 See decision 3/CP.24, para. 7.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
 13 with a view to providing  input for consideration by the Conference of the  Parties at its twenty -
seventh session (November 2022) ; 
13. Also requests the Standing Committee on Finance  to undertake further  work on 
mapping the available information relevant to Article 2, paragraph 1(c), of the Paris 
Agreement, including its reference to Article 9 thereof, with a view to provid ing input  for 
consideration by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -seventh session ; 
14. Notes the biennial submissions received to date from developed country Parties on 
updated strategies and approaches for scaling up climate finance from 2014 to 2020 in 
accordance with decision 3/CP.19, paragraph 10, and takes note  of the compilation and 
synthesis thereof ;4 
15. Notes the summary reports on the 2019 and 2020 in -session workshops on long- term 
climate finance,5 in particular discussions on progress in mobilizing and scaling up climate 
finance held  by the Presidency of the Conference of the Parties at its twenty- sixth session , 
and invites Parties and relevant institutions to consider the key messages  contained therein;  
16. Notes with appreciation the note by the Presidency of the twenty- fourth session of the 
Conference of the Parties on the third biennial high- level ministerial dialogue  on climate 
finance,6 particularly the key messages contained therein;  
17. Welcomes the deliberations at the fourth high- level ministerial dialogue on climate 
finance and lo oks forward to  the summary to be prepared by the Presidency  of the Conference 
of the Parties  at its twenty -sixth session ; 
18. Decides  that continued discussions on long- term climate finance will conclude  in 
2027;  
19. Requests  the Standing Committee on Finance to prepare a report in 2022 on progress 
towards achieving the goal of mobilizing jointly USD 100 billion per year  to address the 
needs of developing countries in the context of meaningful mitigation actions and transparency on implementation, taking into account the Climate Finance Delivery Plan
7 and 
other relevant reports, for consideration by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -seventh 
session,  and to continue to contribute to assessing the achievement of the goa l in the context 
of the preparation of its biennial assessment and overview of climate finance flows;  
20. Decides  to convene biennial high- level ministerial dialogues on climate finance in 
2022, 2024 and 2026 and requests the Presidency of the Conference of th e Parties  to 
summarize the deliberations at the dialogue s for consideration by the Conference of the 
Parties in the year thereafter ;  
21. Invites the Presidency of the twenty -seventh session of the Conference of the Parties 
to organize the high- level ministerial dialogue on climate finance  in 2022 on the progress and 
fulfilment of the goal of mobilizing jointly USD 100 billion per year by 2020;  
22. Reiterates  that the secretariat, in collaboration with the operating entities of the 
Financial Mechanism, United Nati ons agencies and bilateral, regional  and other multilateral 
channels, will continue to explore ways and means to assist developing country Parties in assessing their needs and priorities in a country- driven manner, including their technological 
and capacit y-building needs, and in translating climate finance needs into action;
8 
23. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities  to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 20 and 2 2 above;  
24. Requests  that the actions of the s ecretariat called for in this decision  be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
12th plenary meeting  
13 November 2021
 
 4 FCCC/CP/2019/INF.1.  
 5 FCCC/CP/2019/4 and FCCC/CP/2021/6.  
 6 FCCC/CP/2019/7.  
 7 See https://ukcop26.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/Climate -Finance -Delivery -Plan -1.pdf .  
 8 See decision 6/CP.23, para. 10.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
14    Decision 5/CP.26  
  Matters relating to the Standing Committee on Finance  
The Conference of the  Parties ,  
 Recalling Articles 4 and 11 of the Convention,  
  Also recalling  decisions 12/CP.2, 12/CP.3, 1/CP.16, paragraph 112, and 2/CP.17, 
paragraphs 120– 121, 5/CP.18, 5/CP.19, 7/CP.19, 6/CP.20, 6/CP.21, 8/CP.22, 7/CP.23, 
8/CP.23, 4/CP.24, 11/CP.25 and  5/CMA.2 , 
  Taking note of decision 10/CMA.3,  
1. Welcomes  the 2020 and 2021 reports of the Standing Committee on Finance ;1  
I. Fourth (2020) Biennial Assessment and Overview of Climate 
Finance Flows  
2. Welcomes  the fourth (2020) Biennial Assessment and Overview of Climate Finance 
Flows of the Standing Committee on Finance,2 in particular the summary,3 and endorses its 
key findings , as contained in annex I ; 
3. Notes that global climate finance flows were 16 per cent higher in 2017– 2018 than in 
2015 –2016, reach ing an annual average of USD 775  billion ; the 2017– 2018 annual average 
of public financial support reported by Parties included in Annex II to the Convention in their 
biennial reports4 (USD 48.7 billion) represents  an increase of 2.7 per cent from the annual 
average reported for 2015– 2016; the annual aver age of climate finance from multilateral 
development banks ’ own resources to developing countries and emerging economies 
(USD  36.6 bill ion) represents a 50 per cent increase since 2015 –2016;  and UNFCCC funds 
and multilateral climate funds approved USD 2.2 billion and USD 3.1 billion for climate 
finance projects in 2017 and 2018, respectively;   
4. Welcomes  the improved granularity of data in  the fourth ( 2020)  Biennial Assessment 
and Overview of C limate Finance Flows and e ncourages  developed country Parties and 
climate finance providers, as well as multilateral and financial institutions, private finance providers and other relevant institutions, to continue to enhance the availability of granular,  
country -level data on mitigation and adaptation finance;  
5. Calls  upon developed country Parties and other climate finance providers to continue 
to enhance the harmonization of methodologies for tracking and reporting climate finance 
provided and mobilized;  
6. Recognizes  the fact that there is no multilaterally agreed definition  of climate finance, 
notes the submissions  received in response to decisions 11/CP.25 and 5/CMA.2, which 
highlighted that some Parties noted how the lack of a common definition impacts the ability 
to track and assess climate finance, while other Parties mentioned that a single definition would not be useful, and also  notes  that the operational definitions in use  generally reflect  a 
common understanding of what is considered mitigation and adaptation finance ; 
7. Requests the Standing Committee on Finance to continue its work on definitions of 
climate finance, taking into account the submissions  received fr om Parties on this matter, 
with a view to providing input  for consideration by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -
seventh session (November 2022) ; 
 
 1 FCCC/CP/2020/4−FCCC/PA/CMA/2020/3 and FCCC/CP/2021/10 –FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/7.  
 2 Standing Committee on Finance. 2021. Fourth (2020) Biennial Assessment and Overview of Climate 
Finance Flows . Bonn: UNFCCC. Available at https://unfccc.int/sites/default/files/resource/54307_1  
%20-%20UNFCCC%20BA%202020%20- %20Report%20-%20V4.pdf .  
 3 FCCC/CP/2021/10/Add.1 –FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/7/Add.1.   
 4 Reports submitted as at October 2020.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
 15 8. Invites the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism and other  institutions 
providing climate finance to consider the operational definitions of climate finance of the 
Standing Committee on Finance  with a view to ensuring that finance provided addresses the 
needs of developing country Parties, while respecting their existing policies; 
9. Welcomes  the mapping of the information relevant to Article 2, paragraph 1(c), of the 
Paris Agreement in the fourth (2020) Biennial Assessment  and Overview of Climate Finance 
Flows and takes note  of the key findings of the report , includ ing that banks representing over  
USD  37 trillion in assets  and institutional investors with USD 6.6 trillion in assets have 
pledged to align their lending and investment s with net zero emissions by 2050;  
10. Encourages Parties to ensure that just transition financing is incorporated into 
approaches to align climate action with the goals of the Paris Agreement ; 
II. First report on the determination of the needs of developing 
country Parties related to implementing the Convention and 
the Paris Agreement  
11. Welcomes the first report on the determination of the needs of developing country 
Parties related to implementing the Convention and the Paris Agreement5 of the Standing 
Committee on Finance, in particular the executive summary,6 and endorses  its key findings 
and recommendations , as contained in annex II ;  
12. Notes that nationally determined contributions  from 153 Parties included 4,274 needs, 
with 1,782 costed needs identified across 78 nationally  determined contributions , 
cumulatively amounting to USD 5.8 –5.9 trillion up until 2030, and that , although developing 
country Parties identified more adaptation needs than mitigation needs, more costs were 
identified for the latter, which may not imply that mitigation needs are greater but rather that 
there is  a lack of available data, tools and capacity for assessing adaptation needs;  
13. Also notes that the first report on the  determination of the needs of developing country 
Parties related to implementing the Convention and the Paris Agreement is  the first of its 
kind,  with important areas that will need to be further developed;  
14. Further notes  that the first report on the determination of the needs of developing 
country Parties related to implementing the Convention and the Paris Agreement does not 
fully  cover the needs and costs of developing count ries and all regions  as a result of  limited 
availability of information and acknowledges  that financial and technical support will 
enhance developing countries ’ abilities to updat e the reporting of qualitative and quantitative 
information and data on their needs ; 
15. Expresses its concern  that the first report on the determination of the needs of 
developing country Parties related to implementing the Convention and the Paris Agreement does not have disaggregated data for small island developing States ; 
16. Emphasiz es that there is a particular challenge in deriving cost estimates for climate 
adaptation and enhancing resilience needs and, in this context, deriving cost estimates for averting,  minimizing and addressing loss and damage  needs ; 
17. Encourages  developing country Parties to consider the insights into  methodologies 
identified in the first report on the determination of the needs of developing country Parties related to implementing the C onvention and the Paris Agreement  when costing and 
determining needs;  
18. Invites the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism, United Nations agencies, 
multilateral and bilateral financial institutions , and other relevant institutions to make use of 
 
 5 Standing Committee on Finance. 2021. First report on the determination of the needs of developing 
country Parties related to implementing the Convention and the Pa ris Agreement . Bonn: UNFCCC. 
Available at https://unfccc.int/topics/climate -finance/workstreams/determination -of-the-needs -of-
developing-country-parties/first-report -on-the-determination -of-the-needs -of-developing-country-
parties -related -to-implementing . 
 6 FCCC/CP/2021/10/Add.2 –FCCC /PA/CMA/2021/7/Add.2.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
16  the information contained in the first report on the determination  of the needs of developing 
country Parties related to implementing the Convention and the Paris Agreement when 
supporting developing country Parties in identifying and costing needs;  
19. Reques ts the S tanding Committee on F inance , in preparing future report s on the 
determination of the needs of developing country Parties related to implementing the Convention and the Paris Agreement , to continue to reach out to developing country Parties 
and rel evant developing country stakeholders when generating data and information on 
needs ; 
III. Report of the Standing Committee on Finance  
20. Expresses its appreciation to the Governments of Belgium, Japan and Norway and to 
the European Commission for their financial c ontributions  to support the work of the 
Standing Committee on Finance;  
21. Endorses  the workplan of the Standing Committee on Finance for 20227 and 
underlines  the importance of the Standing Committee on Finance focusing its work in 2022 
in accordance with its current mandates;  
22. Endorses the outline of the technical report of the fifth Biennial Assessment and 
Overview of Climate Finance Flows of the Standing Committee  on Finance and underscores 
that this report will continue to contribute to assessing the achievement of the goal of 
mobilizing jointly USD 100 billion per year by 2020 in the context of meaningful mitigation action and transparency on implementation, in accordance with decision 1/CP.16;
8 
23. Notes  the high- level summary report of the first part of the 2021 Forum  of the  
Standing Committee on Finance on finance for nature -based solutions carried out in a hybrid  
format on 15 and 16 October 2021  and requests the Standing Committee  on Finance to 
organiz e the second part of the Forum  in 2022, subject to health and safety considerations  
arising from the coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic ; 
24. Notes that the Standing Committee on Finance was not able to produce draft guidance 
to the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism and that it has not agreed on  
recommendations from  the fourth (2020) Biennial Assessment and  Overview of Climate 
Finance Flo ws, and in this regard  requests the Committee to improve its working modalities; 
25. Notes with appreciation the efforts of the Standing Committee on Finance in 
enhancing engagement  with stakeholders in the context of its workplan;  
26. Encourages  the Standing Com mittee on Finance to continue to enhance its efforts 
towards ensuring gender -responsiveness in implementing its workplan;  
27. Requests the Standing Committee on Finance to report  to the Conference of the Parties 
at its twenty -seventh session on its progress in implementing its 2022 workplan;  
28. Also requests the Standing Committee on Finance to consider  the guidance provided 
to it in other relevant decisions of the Conference of the Parties . 
 
 
 7 FCCC/CP/2021/10 –FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/7, annex II.  
 8 FCCC/CP/2021/10/Add.5 –FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/7/Add.5 . FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
 17 Annex I * 
  Summary by the Standing Committee on Finance of the 
fourth (2020) Biennial Assessment and Overview of Climate 
Finance Flows  
[English only]  
I. Context and mandates  
1. The SCF assists the COP in exercising its functions with respect to the Financial 
Mechanism of the Convention, including in terms of measurement, reporting and verification 
of support provided to developing country Parties, through ac tivities such as the BA. The 
SCF also serves the Paris Agreement in line with its functions and responsibilities established under the COP, including the BA.
1 
2. Since the first BA in 2014, the preparation of subsequent BAs has been guided by 
mandates from t he COP and the CMA to the SCF.2  
3. The fourth (2020) BA presents an updated overview and trends in climate 
finance flows up until 2018 and assesses their implications for international efforts to address climate change. The fourth BA includes an overview of  climate finance flows from 
developed to developing countries,
3 and available information on domestic climate finance, 
cooperation among developing countries and other climate -related flows that constitute 
global climate finance. It assesses the key featu res of climate finance flows, including their 
composition and purposes, and explores insights into their effectiveness, access to finance, country ownership, and alignment with the needs and priorities of beneficiaries, as well as their magnitude in the co ntext of broader flows. In addition, it provides information on recent 
developments on methodological issues related to the tracking of climate finance at the international and domestic level, operational definitions of climate finance in use and new indic ators for measuring the impact of climate finance.  
4. The fourth (2020) BA includes mapping of information relevant to the long -term 
goal outlined in Article 2, paragraph 1(c), of the Paris Agreement on making finance 
flows consistent with a pathway towards low GHG emission and climate -resilient 
development . The fourth BA provides the first mapping exercise, to be conducted every four 
years, to identify the latest actions and activities of different actors related to making finance 
flows consistent with low G HG emission and climate -resilient development pathways, 
including national Governments, development finance institutions, central banks and regulators, multilateral finance institutions, and climate funds, as well as private sector actors such as corporati ons, banks and investors. Information produced by United Nations entities 
and initiatives, and under other multilateral processes, as well as the perspective of civil society organizations and the academic community, was also explored. Emerging methodologi es, indicators and data sets to support tracking the consistency of finance flows 
are also discussed in respective chapters of the technical report (see para. 5 below).  
5. The fourth BA comprises this summary, prepared by the SCF, and a technical report, 
prepared by experts under the guidance of the SCF drawing on information and data from a 
 
 * For a list of acronyms and abbreviations, see document 
FCCC/CP/2021/10/Add.1−FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/7/Add.1.  
 1 Decisions 2/CP.17, para. 121(f); and 1/CP.21, para. 63. 
 2 Decisions 1/CP.18, para. 71; 5/CP.18, para. 11; 3/CP.19, para. 11; 8/CP.22, annex, para. 37(f);  
4/CP.24, paras. 4, 5, and 10; and 19/CMA.1, para. 36(d).  
 3 For the purpose of the overview of climate finance in the BA, various data sources are used to 
illustrate flows from developed to developing countries, without prejudice to the meaning of those 
terms in the context of the Convention and the Paris Agreement, including but not limited to 
Anne x II/Annex I Parties, non -Annex I Parties and MDBs; OECD members and non -OECD 
members; OECD DAC members and countries eligible for OECD DAC official development 
assistance; and other relevant classifications.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
18  range of sources. It was subject to extensive stakeholder input and expert review, but remains 
a product of the external experts.  
II. Challenges and limitations  
6. The fourth BA  provides an updated overview of climate finance flows in 2017– 2018, 
along with data on trends in 2011– 2016 compiled from previous BA reports where 
applicable. Due diligence has been undertaken to use the best information available from the most credible s ources. In compiling estimates, efforts have been made to ensure that they are 
based on activities in line with the convergence of operational definitions of climate finance identified in the first BA and to avoid double counting by focusing on primary finance, which is finance for a new physical item or activity. Challenges were nevertheless encountered in collecting, aggregating and analysing information from diverse sources.  
7. Data uncertainty : Most of the uncertainties associated with each source of data 
which have different underlying causes identified in the previous BAs persist, although there 
have been some improvements. Uncertainties relating to the data on domestic public investments result from the lack of geographical coverage and differences in the way tracking methods are applied, as well as significant changes in the methods used for estimating 
investment in energy efficiency and sustainable transport over time. Uncertainties also arise 
from the lack of transparency of data for determining private climate finance; the methods 
used for estimating adaptation finance; differences in the assumptions used in underlying 
formulas for attributing finance from MDBs to developed countries; the classification of 
sustainable or green finance; and the inc omplete data on non -concessional finance flows.  
8. Data gaps : Significant gaps in the coverage of sectors and sources of climate finance 
remain, particularly with regard to private investment, and adaptation and resilience. While 
estimates of incremental inve stment in energy efficiency have improved, understanding of 
the public and private sources of finance and the financial instruments used remains inadequate. For data on sustainable transport, efforts have been made to improve coverage 
of public and private  investment in electric vehicles and charging infrastructure. However, 
high- quality data on private investments in sustainable agriculture, forestry and land use, 
water, waste, and adaptation and resilience are particularly lacking. Specifically, adaptatio n 
finance estimates, which are context -specific and incremental, are difficult to compare with 
mitigation finance estimates, and more work is needed on estimating climate -resilient 
investments.  
9. In relation to mapping information relevant to Article 2, par agraph 1(c), of the Paris 
Agreement, the lack of a common interpretation of or guidelines on what information qualifies as relevant presents a challenge in adequately capturing the scope and depth of related action. For the fourth BA an actor -specific mapp ing approach was adopted, as 
opposed to focusing on particular financial instruments, asset classes, or categories of action, in order to capture what financial sector actors consider to be relevant information on 
activities to be consistent with or align with the goals of the Paris Agreement. Such mapping 
may be non -exhaustive and limited in terms of representation across geographic areas and 
sectors. It may also obscure the role of actors that work across multiple categories. Given that a significant amou nt of information considered relevant is to be derived from multiple -
member initiatives and coalitions, due to potential benefits of network effects, focusing on these groups may limit the mapping of information from individual cases that may be considered  best practice or leading examples. Furthermore, there is a limited track record and 
limited in -depth information related to implementing activities consistent with or that align 
with the Paris Agreement that might enable a thorough assessment of their eff ectiveness, and 
therefore their relevance, in achieving the goal outlined in Article 2, paragraph 1(c).  
10. The limitations outlined above need to be taken into consideration when deriving 
conclusions and policy implications from the fourth BA. The SCF will continue to contribute, through its activities, to the progressive improvement of the measurement, reporting and verification of climate finance in future BAs, to help address these challenges.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
 19 III. Key findings 
A. Methodological issues related to transparency of cl imate finance 
11. Improvements in the consistency of reporting on climate finance under the 
Convention are observed . Progress regarding the consistency of climate finance reporting 
was observed in the BR4 common tabular format submissions from Annex II Parties  and the 
provision of qualitative information in the documentation boxes of those tables or in the BRs. 
One improvement relates to the reporting by type of support, with Parties reporting only on mitigation, adaptation and cross -cutting categories, without  including other types of support. 
Nevertheless, improvements in aggregating geographic or sector -based information remains 
limited owing to differences in the approaches used by Parties and the functionality of the 
reporting system to allow differences in reporting. Several Parties referred to ongoing work 
to resolve challenges related to reporting on private finance mobilized by public 
interventions.  
12. Data coverage and granularity of reporting on climate finance received in the BURs 
of non- Annex I Parties  has improved since the previous BA. Nineteen Parties have submitted 
a BUR for the first time since the previous BA, in addition to a further 27 Parties submitting second or third BURs. The proportion of BURs that include information on finance received rose from approximately 60 per cent in 2014 to over 90 per cent in 2019– 2020. A total of 41 
Parties have provided quantitative information on climate finance received at the project or 
activity level in tabular format. Many differences remain in the approach es Parties used for 
reporting, including time periods of reported data and information on types of support, sectors 
and financial instruments. Several Parties included additional information in their second and third BURs on whether a project is linked to capacity -building, technology development and 
transfer, or technical assistance.  
13. Availability of domestic public climate finance data is increasing, with more 
countries establishing climate budget tagging systems . Notable improvements were 
observed in the tracking of domestic climate -related public or private finance flows, with the 
issuance of green sovereign bonds incentivizing the establishment of regular tracking systems in both developed and developing countries, building on previous work through CPEIR s. 
Thirteen countries have established tracking systems for national budgets, with a further five countries developing tracking methodologies. In total, estimates of domestic public expenditures on climate change in 2017– 2018 amount to approximately USD 86 .6 billion 
(see chap. III.B below).  
14. Operational definitions of climate finance in use generally reflect a common 
understanding of what is considered mitigation or adaptation finance, but differ on the details of sector- specific activities, certain financi al instruments and approaches to 
public and private finance flows . Operational definitions of climate finance in use have 
evolved over time. The MDB list of activities eligible for classification as mitigation finance includes charging stations for electri c vehicles and hydrogen or biofuel fuelling since 2017 
and resource efficiency in aquaculture since 2018, while OECD DAC integrated adjustments to adaptation finance eligibility criteria in 2016 to harmonize with a stepwise approach developed by MDBs.  
15. The lists of climate mitigation activities developed by MDBs have served in part to 
inform green or climate -aligned taxonomies in recent years to support the development of 
the green bond market and/or regulatory efforts in the field of sustainable finance to combat greenwashing and promote the standardization of financial products. Approaches to defining mitigation and adaptation activities are broadly consistent across various international organizations and regulatory initiatives, although inclusion and excl usion lists and 
approaches to the criteria used to define such activities can vary.  
16. Parties ’ submissions on operational definitions of climate finance in use highlighted 
a range of views on the need for, and on the form and scope of, a common definition of  
climate finance. Some Parties noted that a single definition would not be useful, or should be broad enough to cater for the dynamic and evolving nature of climate finance due to a variety of factors, including NDCs and implementation of the enhanced transparency framework FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
20  over time, ways of tracking progress related to Article 2, paragraph 1(c), of the Paris 
Agreement, and changes in methodologies and definitions for mitigation and adaptation due to data availability or improvements in processes and knowl edge.  
17. Some Parties pointed to the use of a classification system or taxonomy rather than a 
single definition and referred to the development of taxonomies or classifications outside the UNFCCC process or within national sustainable finance frameworks.  
18. Other Parties noted how the lack of a common definition affects the ability to track 
and assess the fulfilment of the obligations of Annex II Parties under the Convention and those of developed country Parties under the Paris Agreement. A common definition c ould 
support the preparation of the BA and the overall transparency and effectiveness of the UNFCCC process by highlighting the link between the level of action of developing countries and the level of support provided and, ultimately, the achievement of t he objectives of the 
Convention and the Paris Agreement. In this context, two submissions included a proposal for an operational definition of climate finance, while other submissions included a proposal 
for an operational approach to achieving greater con vergence among definitions over time, 
based either on common principles or responses to a common set of questions to provide 
granular information.  
19. More methodologies on measuring outcomes of financing for climate resilience 
have emerged in recent years . Many multilateral institutions are in the process of 
developing or have already developed frameworks for measuring impacts, with an increasing focus on adaptation and resilience, such as the Resilience Rating System by the World Bank Group and the Climate Re silience Metrics Framework by MDBs and IDFC. Although 
approaches to measuring impacts of climate finance vary, most multilateral institutions, as 
well as bilateral contributors, use a similar set of mitigation and adaptation indicators.  
20. There are four common decision points identified in emerging methodologies and 
metrics in use for tracking consistency with low GHG emission and climate- resilient 
development pathways . As with tracking climate finance, emerging methodologies relevant 
to tracking consiste ncy with the long- term goal under Article 2, paragraph 1(c), of the Paris 
Agreement also need to overcome issues related to definitions, the scope or boundary of tracking, data availability and comparability.  
21. Methods differ as to the type of finance flows , stocks and services tracked (primary 
or secondary markets) and the ways of measuring consistency (e.g. on the basis of GHG 
emissions, emissions intensity metrics or technology choices). However, the four common decision points are:  
(a) Identifying a given pa thway to low GHG emission and climate -resilient 
development against which the consistency of actions will be measured. Different pathways may be chosen relative to their consistency with low GHG emission development and mitigation goals, and to their consi stency with climate -resilient development and adaptation 
or resilience goals. Pathways may result in compatible activity lists or performance metrics against which to measure action. In addition, the timescale used to measure consistency is important. This  could be, for example, within 5 or 10 years, or by a given year, such as 2050;  
(b) Reviewing the activities and actions to be tracked (e.g. investments, economic 
activities such as production and sales or purchasing of goods and services, policymaking, legislation and voluntary standards) that the stakeholder undertakes, which is relevant to whether the pathway will be achieved;  
(c) Understanding which finance flows that go towards realizing the activities and 
actions should be tracked by the stakeholder;  
(d) Identify ing which key metrics to use to assess whether finance flows and 
related processes result in activities and actions that are consistent with the given pathway identified during the review.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
 21 B. Overview of climate finance flows in 2017–2018 
22. Global climate finan ce flows were 16 per cent higher in 2017 –2018 than in 2015–
2016, reaching an annual average of USD 775 billion and achieving significantly higher 
results, particularly in renewable energies . High -bound climate finance estimates 
increased from USD 692 billi on in 2016 to USD 804 billion in 2017 and USD 746 billion in 
2018, for an annual average of USD 775 billion in 2017 –2018. The growth in 2017 was 
driven largely by an increase in new private investment in renewable energy as a result of decreasing technolog y costs, while the decline in 2018 was due primarily to a slowdown in 
wind and solar investment in major markets. Figure 1 provides a breakdown of global climate 
finance flows in 2015– 2018 by sector, and figure 2 provides an overview of global climate 
finance and finance flows in 2017– 2018 from developed to developing countries.  
Figure 1  
Global climate finance flows in 2015– 2018  
(Billions of United States dollars)  
 
23. Continued decreases in renewable energy technology costs mean new investment 
goes further.  Renewable energy technology costs continued to decline in 2017– 2018 
compared with those in 2015 –2016, with a 29 per cent decrease for solar photovoltaics, an 
18 per cent decrease for offshore wind and a 10 per cent decrease for onshore wind, 
emphasizing h ow greater impacts are achieved for each new dollar of investment. In 2018, 
100 per cent more renewable energy capacity was commissioned than in 2012 with only a 22 per cent increase in investment.  
24. For the fourth BA, several new data sources have been used to track climate finance 
in areas that were not previously included, such as electric vehicle charging infrastructure, transport, water, waste and municipal investments. Where possible, the data have been integrated in the time series retroactively to allow for trend comparisons.  
25. Climate finance from developed to developing countries increased through 
various channels . Total public financial support reported by Annex II Parties in their BRs 
submitted (as at October 2020) amounted to USD 45.4 billion in 2017 and USD 51.8 billion in 2018. The annual average (USD 48.7 billion) represents an increase of 2.7 per cent from the annual average reported for 2015 –2016. Climate -specific financial support, which 
accounts for up to three fourths of the financial suppor t reported in the BRs, increased by 13 
per cent on a comparable basis to an annual average of USD 36.3 billion. Most climate -
specific financial support was reported through bilateral, regional and other channels, with USD 28.1 billion in 2017 and USD 31.8 billion in 2018.  
26. Mitigation finance constitutes the largest share of climate -specific financial support 
through bilateral channels at 64 per cent. However, the share of adaptation finance increased from 15 per cent in 2015– 2016 to 21 per cent in 2017– 2018  as it grew at a higher rate than 
mitigation finance.  
27. UNFCCC funds and multilateral climate funds approved USD 2.2 billion and USD 
3.1 billion for climate finance projects in 2017 and 2018, respectively. The annual average for 2017– 2018 (USD 2.7 billion) represents an increase of approximately 39 per cent 
compared with those in 2015– 2016, owing primarily to increases in project approvals by the 
FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
22  GCF Board and the GEF Council. In terms of inflows to the operating entities of the Financial 
Mechanism, the seve nth replenishment of the GEF resulted in USD 4.1 billion in pledges and 
USD 802 million allocated to the climate change focal area, compared with USD 4.4 billion in total pledges and USD 1.26 billion allocated to the climate change focal area in the sixth replenishment. The first replenishment of the GCF pledging conference in 2019 amounted to USD 9.8 billion, compared with USD 10.2 billion from the initial resource mobilization pledging conference in 2014.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
 23 Figure 2  
Climate finance flows in 2017 –2018  
(Billions of United States dollars, annualized)  
 
Notes : (1) Value discounts transport energy efficiency estimates by 8.5 per cent to account for overlap with electric vehicle 
estimates, same as in previous years . (2) From Annex II to non-Annex I Parties. Val ues derived from calculating attributed shares of 
Annex II Parties per MDB multiplied by the climate finance provided to non-Annex I Parties from MDBs’ own resources . 
(3) Estimates include private finance mobilized through public interventions from developed countries.  
28. MDBs provided USD 34 billion and USD 42 billion in climate finance from their own 
resources to developing and emerging economies in 2017 and 2018, respectively. The annual 
FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
24  average (USD 36.6 billion) represents a 50 per cent increase since 2015 –2016. The at tribution 
of these flows to developed countries is calculated at between USD 23.3 billion to USD 24.1 
billion in 2017 and USD 25.8 billion to 28.0 billion in 2018.  
29. The uncertainty of the data on the geographic sources and destinations of private 
finance f lows to developing countries remains significant. OECD estimates that private 
climate finance mobilized by developed countries through bilateral and multilateral channels amounted to USD 14.5 billion in 2017 and USD 14.6 billion in 2018.  
30. Information on the recipients of climate finance remains limited. The increase in BUR 
submissions from non- Annex I Parties has resulted in a greater amount of information on 
finance received than for previous BAs. However, time lags in data availability for reporting make it difficult to provide updated or complete information on finance received in 2017–
2018. Of the 63 Parties that had submitted BURs as at December 2020, 28 included some information on climate finance received in 2017 or 2018. In total, USD 7.8 billion was  
reported as received for projects starting in 2017 and USD 2 billion for projects starting in 
2018. A total of 23 Annex II Parties included information on recipients of finance at either 
the country or project level in their BR4s.  
31. South– South climate finance flows have increased, but data availability and 
coverage remain limited . While data availability and coverage of climate finance flows 
between developing countries remain limited, it is a growing area of global climate finance 
flows. Several countries voluntarily report to standardized reporting systems such as OECD DAC. Up to 20 development finance institutions that are IDFC members are based in non-OECD countries, and MDBs led by developing countries such as the Asian Infrastructure Develo pment Bank and the New Development Bank continue to increase finance flows. 
Estimates of South –South climate finance flows amounted to USD 17.8 billion to USD 18.0 
billion in 2017 and USD 18.0 billion to USD 18.2 billion in 2018.  
C. Assessment of climate fin ance flows  
32. Trends in public concessional climate finance, including bilateral flows, multilateral 
climate funds and funds from MDBs, point to increasing flows towards developing countries from multilateral sources, while bilateral climate finance flows hav e stagnated.  
33. Support for mitigation remains greater than support for adaptation . Adaptation 
finance has remained at between 20 and 25 per cent of committed concessional finance across all sources (noting measurement differences), showing little movement s ince the previous 
BA (see the table below). However, the continued rise in public climate finance flows contributing towards both adaptation and mitigation complicates this assessment. The rise is most obvious in flows from multilateral climate funds and through bilateral channels. While the GCF allocates climate finance for projects in this cross -cutting category to adaptation or 
mitigation, not all institutions do so in their programming or reporting. This makes it more difficult to track progress in scaling up adaptation finance and ultimately achieving balance 
between finance for adaptation and mitigation objectives.  
34. Grants continue to be a key instrument for adaptation finance . In 2017– 2018 
grants accounted for 64 and 94 per cent of the face value of bilateral adaptation finance 
reported to OECD and of adaptation finance from multilateral climate funds, respectively (see the table below). During the same period, 9 per cent of adaptation finance flowing through MDBs was grant -based. These figures indicat e no change since 2015– 2016. 
Mitigation finance remains less concessional in nature, with 30 per cent of bilateral flows, 29 per cent of multilateral climate fund approvals and 3 per cent of MDB investments taking the form of grants. These figures, however , may not fully capture the added value brought by 
combining different types of financial instruments, or technical assistance with capital flows, which can often lead to greater innovation or more sustainable implementation.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
 25 Characteristics of internatio nal public climate finance flows in 2017 –2018  
  Annual 
average  
(USD 
billion)  Area of support   Financial instrument  
Adaptation Mitigation  REDD+a Cross-
cutting   Grants  Concession
al loans  Other  
Multilateral 
climate fundsb 2.7 20% 48% 5% 27%  
53% 40% 8% 
Bilateral 
climate financec 29.9 21% 65% – 15%  
64% 36% <1%  
MDB climate 
financed 39.2 25% 75% – –  
5% 75% 20% 
Note : All values based on approvals and commitments.  
a  In decision 1/CP.16, para. 70, the Conference of the Parties encouraged developing country Parties to contribute 
to mitigation actions in the forest sector by undertaking the following activities: reducing emissions from 
deforestation; reducing emissions fro m forest degradation; conservation of forest carbon stocks; sustainable 
management of forests; and enhancement of forest carbon stocks.  
b  Including: Adaptation for Smallholder Agriculture Programme, Adaptation Fund, Bio Carbon Fund, Clean 
Technology Fund,  Forest Carbon Partnership Facility, Forest Investment Program, Global Climate Change Alliance, 
GCF, GEF Trust Fund, Least Developed Countries Fund, Partnership for Market Readiness, Pilot Programme for 
Climate Resilience, Scaling Up Renewable Energy Progr am, Special Climate Change Fund and United Nations 
Collaborative Programme on Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation in Developing 
Countries.  
c  Bilateral climate finance data are sourced from Annex II Parties’ BRs (that further inclu de regional and other 
channels) for the annual average and thematic split. The financial instrument data are taken from data from OECD 
DAC, referring only to concessional flows of climate -related development assistance reported by OECD DAC 
members. In sect ion C of the summary and chap. III of the technical report, “bilateral finance” refers only to 
concessional flows of climate-related development assistance reported by OECD DAC members.  
d  The  annual average and thematic split of MDBs includes their own resources only, while the financial instrument 
data include data from MDBs and from external resources, owing to the lack of data disaggregation.  
35. With regard to the geographic distribution of public concessional climate finance, 
Asia remains the principal beneficiary region. In 2017– 2018 the region received on average 
30 per cent of funding commitments from bilateral flows, multilateral climate funds and 
MDBs. Sub -Saharan Africa received an average of 24 per cent of commitments across the 
sources in the same period, followed by Latin America and the Caribbean with 17 per cent and the remainder going to the Middle East and North Africa; Central, Eastern and South-Eastern Europe; the South Caucasus;  and Central Asia.  
36. The LDCs and SIDS are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate 
change. Article 9 of the Paris Agreement emphasizes the importance of the provision of 
scaled -up financial resources to these countries. In 2017– 2018 funding committed to projects 
in the LDCs represented 22 per cent of bilateral flows and 24 per cent of finance approved 
through multilateral climate funds. Funding committed to SIDS represented 2 per cent of 
bilateral finance and 10 per cent of finance approved through multilateral climate funds. Of 
the finance provided to the LDCs and SIDS, the amount targeting adaptation fell slightly in 
2017 –2018, although the shares remained stable overall. MDBs channelled 11 per cent of 
their climate finance to the LDCs and  3 per cent to SIDS. As in previous years, adaptation 
finance as a share of all climate finance to these countries was significantly higher than that of the overall climate finance spending by MDBs.  
37. In 2017 –2018, there continued to be a push to diversify modalities of access to 
climate finance . In a 2019 survey of 105 respondents from 45 developing countries, 73 per 
cent identified finance from multilateral climate funds as the most challenging source of 
finance to access compared with private finance (62 per cent), MDBs and development 
finance institutions (30 per cent) and bilateral sources (17 per cent). Institutions in developing 
countries are increasingly able to meet fiduciary and environmental and social safeguards requirements for accessing funds. D ata show a continued increase in the number of national 
implementing entities of multilateral climate funds as well as an increase in the accreditation of civil society and private entities, with both trends largely driven by the GCF. Significant shares of  climate finance approvals from multilateral climate funds are programmed through 
multilateral accredited and implementing entities.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
26  38. The management of climate finance, as well as the development and implementation 
of projects that it supports, necessarily  entails costs. Often recovered through mechanisms 
such as administrative budgets and implementing agency fees, the degree of such costs varies 
across institutions by nature of their different approaches and delivery models. In 2017 –2018, 
major multilatera l climate funds spent USD 217 million on administration costs, while 
implementing entity fees amounted to USD 231 million. In general, the administration costs of climate finance management have tended to decrease over time. The alignment of administrative  functions between funds (e.g. the GEF administration of the Least Developed 
Countries Fund and the Special Climate Change Fund) can streamline management and disbursement mechanisms. This is essential in order to retain the trust that contributors and beneficiaries place in the funds. However, it must be balanced by the above -mentioned rise 
in implementing entities and associated costs.  
39. The capacity of institutions to make strategic choices to use climate finance has long 
been recognized as important. Bot h the Adaptation Fund and the GCF have developed 
readiness programmes, supporting countries to plan for, access and deliver climate finance. 
Together these funds have approved over USD 285 million in readiness support. The GEF 
has instead incorporated capa city-building objectives into existing project funding through 
“enabling activities”. Reviews of these programmes have endorsed the use of readiness support to build all aspects of the capacity required to mobilize finance for climate action, rather than a focus on supporting access to multilateral climate funds.  
40. Ownership over the end use of climate finance flows remains a critical factor in 
its effectiveness . The broad concept of ownership encompasses the consistency of climate 
finance with national prio rities, the degree to which national systems are used for both 
spending and tracking, and the engagement of a wide range of stakeholders. Financial needs are being increasingly articulated, but to date lack sufficient comparability of methods, including for costs, time frames and assumptions, in order to make an accurate assessment of the alignment of climate finance provision with such needs. Ministries of finance and planning are strengthening their commitments to engage in climate change planning, with national- level institutions playing a greater role through domestic tracking, monitoring and 
verification of climate finance.  
41. Impact reporting systems and practices for climate finance are maturing . 
Mechanisms for monitoring the impact of climate finance may be relevant for the implementation of the enhanced transparency framework. While the reporting of results is slowly improving under multilateral climate funds, MDBs do not include information on mitigation and adaptation outcomes in their joint reports a nd bilateral contributors have 
varied approaches to reporting on impacts. Emission reduction remains the primary impact metric for climate change mitigation, while adaptation impact continues to be measured primarily in terms of the number and type of people that benefit from projects. It remains difficult to accurately assess the quality of the impacts (i.e. outcomes) achieved, given that they are being presented in a multitude of formats and over varying timescales and are hard to verify.  
42. A number of deci sions have strengthened the way in which gender issues are 
addressed in the UNFCCC process . Gender -responsive public finance is likely to be more 
effective and efficient. Multilateral climate funds have been front runners in mainstreaming gender considerat ions in governance and operations. Those under the Financial Mechanism 
now have a mandate to include information on gender considerations in their annual reports to the COP. While advances are being made, there is scarce information on gender -responsive 
budgeting, suggesting that work remains to be done in integrating gender considerations on the ground.  
43. The drivers of climate finance flows can consist of both demand-  and supply -side 
actions but may differ in terms of mitigation or adaptation objectives . For mitigation 
finance, policy targets and support mechanisms have played a major role in driving climate finance flows, such as in the role of long- term fixed prices in supporting renewable energy 
deployment and more recently purchasing incentives for elec tric vehicles and bans on the 
sale of new combustion engine vehicles in the long term. Cross -cutting features of enabling 
environments, such as currency stability of exchange rates, stability of policies and FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
 27 enforcement of contracts, particularly in drivin g finance towards sustainable land use, and 
maintenance of political will and support, have also proven to be significant drivers.  
44. For adaptation finance, the role of national plans, standards and institutions takes on 
more importance in driving finance fl ows than may be the case in mitigation finance, owing 
to the importance of local, context -specific conditions. Building codes, design standards and 
disaster risk management guidelines play a role in furthering climate resilience within 
infrastructure and d evelopment investments. Furthermore, local and context -specific 
vulnerabilities require local- level data and information systems on risks to drive investment, 
particularly in agricultural adaptation activities.  
45. Although climate finance flows are increasin g, they remain relatively small in the 
broader context of other finance flows, investment opportunities and costs . Climate 
finance accounts for just a small proportion of overall finance flows, as shown in figure 3. 
The level of climate finance is consider ably below what would be expected in view of the 
investment opportunities and needs that have been identified. However, although climate 
finance flows must obviously be scaled up, it is also important to ensure the consistency of 
finance flows as a whole ( and of capital stock) with the long -term goals of the Paris 
Agreement, specifically those set out in its Article 2.  
46. Financial flows and stocks in GHG -intensive activities remain concerningly high . 
Fossil fuel investments amounted globally to USD 977 billion in 2017– 2018, while fossil 
fuel subsidies amounted to USD 472 billion in 2018. Fossil fuel corporate capital expenditure at risk of becoming stranded amounted to USD 50 billion in 2018, while investments with deforestation risks amounted to USD 43.8 bill ion in 2017– 2018, and net agriculture subsidies 
amounted to USD 619 billion per year on average from 2017 to 2019. Fixed assets in sectors 
linked to fossil fuel systems amounted to USD 32 trillion, real estate assets at risk in 2070 amounted to USD 35 tril lion, and stranded assets worth USD 20 trillion are at risk out to 
2050.  
47. Given the scale and speed needed for the transformation to low GHG emission and 
climate -resilient development pathways, it is critical to consider climate finance flows within 
the con text of broader finance flows. A sole focus on positive climate finance flows will be 
insufficient to meet the overarching objectives of the Paris Agreement. This does not mean 
that broader finance flows must all have explicit beneficial climate outcomes, but it does 
mean that they must integrate climate risks into decision -making and avoid increasing the 
likelihood of negative climate outcomes. Without this, the effectiveness of climate finance flows can be called into question or even negated.  
D. Mapping inf ormation relevant to Article 2, paragraph 1(c), of the Paris 
Agreement  
48. Article 2 of the Paris Agreement sets out three interlinked goals aimed at 
strengthening the global response to climate change in the context of sustainable development and efforts to eradicate poverty: (1) limiting the increase in global average temperature to well below 2 °C above pre -industrial levels and pursuing efforts to limit the 
increase to 1.5 °C above pre -industrial levels; (2) increasing the ability to adapt to and foster 
resilience against the adverse impacts of climate change; and (3) in Article 2, paragraph 1(c), 
making finance flows consistent with a pathway towards low greenhouse gas emissions and climate -resilient development. Article 2 states that the Paris Agreement w ill be implemented 
to reflect equity, and the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities, in the light of different national circumstances.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
28  Figure 3 
Global climate finance in the context of broader finance flows, op portunities and costs  
 
49. Although there is no dedicated process for responding to the goal set out in Article 2, 
paragraph 1(c), some Parties have articulated polices and measures in their long -term 
strategies or domestic policy frameworks that speak to the  goal. Furthermore, both public 
and private sector institutions in the financial sector have articulated in their strategies efforts 
to align with the Paris Agreement and the goal in Article 2, paragraph 1(c). In the absence of a common vision among Partie s on what information may be relevant, the aim of the mapping 
exercise was to capture how their actions meet the goal in Article 2, paragraph 1(c), and therefore what they consider relevant from their perspective, and it provided a number of key 
insights.  
50. Significant growth in relevant initiatives has been apparent since the Paris 
Agreement entered into force, particularly in coalitions fostering collective 
commitments on climate action . Activities relevant to Article 2, paragraph 1(c), in many 
instances, are found in practices, coalitions and initiatives that predate the Paris Agreement. 
FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
 29 Policy and regulatory measures on green finance have been recorded since 1980, although 
there has been a marked increase in such measures since the adoption of the Paris Agreement (see figure 4). This historical context is relevant as it provides evidence that even prior to adoption of the Paris Agreement, actors were developing sustainability-  and clima te-related 
financial instruments and regulations which represent foundations for action relevant to Article 2, paragraph 1(c), that is also integrated with national development goals. For example:  
(a) 34 of 103 stock exchanges have sustainable bond- listing pr ocesses;  
(b) Investors managing USD 90 trillion have signed on to the Principles for 
Responsible Investment;  
(c) 53 banks, representing over USD 37 trillion in assets, which represent one 
fourth of global banking assets, have pledged to align their lending and investment portfolios 
with net zero emissions by 2050, as part of the Net Zero Banking Alliance;  
(d) Over 40 institutional investors with USD 6.6 trillion in assets have pledged to 
align portfolios with net zero emissions by 2050, as part of the Net -Zero Asset Ow ner 
Alliance.  
Figure 4  
Number of green finance policy and regulatory measures, and growth of selected initiatives since the adoption of the Paris Agreement  
 
51. However, the Paris Agreement triggered a focusing of action whereby existing 
sustainability and c limate -related finance initiatives sought to adopt objectives or activities 
that matched those of the Paris Agreement goals. At least 115 sustainability - or climate -
related financial initiatives exist that claim to be either directly or indirectly associated with contributing to the goals of the Paris Agreement. The majority relate to promoting new financial instruments that address funding needs for sustainable development and climate 
FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
30  change. A smaller pool of approximately 31 initiatives are focused on gr eening financial 
systems – for example, the TCFD, the European Union High Level Expert Group on 
Sustainable Finance and the NGFS.  
52. Many activities across the stakeholder mapping exercise that explicitly refer to 
achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement and Article 2, paragraph 1(c), in particular are 
executed through collective initiatives and organizations. This highlights the importance of network effects, knowledge -sharing and common goal setting. In contrast, relatively few 
relevant actions by nationa l Governments are framed in the context of Article 2, paragraph 
1(c). Particularly in developing countries, the ability to access international climate finance in the context of Article 9 is mentioned, as is directing domestic finance flows towards achievi ng NDC goals.  
53. Assessing the real -economy impact and the risk of greenwashing remains a 
challenge . Efforts relevant to Article 2, paragraph 1(c), are widespread across all actors 
within the financial sector, with actions concentrated on defining their exposure to climate 
risks and the economic opportunities linked to climate response measures. However, 
achieving the goal in Article 2, paragraph 1(c), related to low GHG emission and climate -
resilient development, set in the context of Article 2, depends on r eal-economy actions that 
reduce emissions in line with temperature goals and help to develop climate resilience. Many actors in the financial sector operate at a number of steps removed from real -economy 
activities, through stock or bond trading, portfolio  allocations, or micro -prudential 
supervision, which has little direct effect on real- economy investment decisions relative to 
banks lending to projects, corporations approving capital expenditure plans or governments announcing support incentives. Therefore, measuring the effective role of financial actors in 
the context of Article 2, paragraph 1(c), is a notable topic of debate among initiatives, including which metrics are most important as indicators of success.  
54. Several researchers highlight the absence  of any independent critique of the motives 
and impacts of the numerous finance -related initiatives that have emerged since the adoption 
of the Paris Agreement. Such critical engagement will assist in assessing the real -economy 
contributions of these initiatives towards achieving consistency of finance flows and combating greenwashing in this context. Further, a plethora of initiatives offers the potential for incoherence and different levels of ambition in articulating how the goal in Article 2, 
paragraph 1(c), may be met.  
55. The most recent initiatives include efforts of respective stakeholders to align with net 
zero emissions or 1.5 °C temperature rise pathways, with a focus on commitments for target 
setting and reporting, in contrast to earlier initiatives that focused on advocacy and high -level 
commitments.  
56. Trend towards activities with more stringent minimum requirements or 
mandatory regulations over voluntary activities . Actors are largely adopting approaches 
in line with their institutional mandates, ge ographical reach and interpretation of how climate 
risks and opportunities affect and benefit their operations. To date, initiatives with the widest coverage and scope among financial actors are voluntary in nature, often with non -
prescriptive commitments to principles. More recently, some initiatives include mandatory implementation requirements against common timelines. Furthermore, some Governments have already signalled that mandatory exclusions or obligations are being placed on institutions, although these remain limited in number and geographical scope.  
57. More work needed to promote inclusivity and geographical representation . A 
number of initiatives relevant to Article 2, paragraph 1(c), include representation from different regions and both developed and developing countries. For private finance actors, 
such representation is important, and it reveals how different relative starting points, capacity and skills gaps exist within coalitions that make common commitments. Further, although a significant n umber of initiatives were identified, many have yet to combine networks to 
achieve greater effect. Of the 115 partnerships identified of relevance to supporting the goals of the Paris Agreement, with up to 5,181 constituent members, the vast majority (75 per cent) are connected to only one partnership.  
58. Inclusive and broad geographic representation is even more critical among relevant 
initiatives targeted at public finance actors, regulators and other country- focused actors such FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
 31 as financial centres. In these forums, it is important to reflect the perspectives of different 
regions, financial systems and country priorities in how common goals are articulated, particularly as the activities of these actors support and facilitate the achievement of the goal in Article 2, paragraph 1(c), as well as their country NDCs.  
59. Pursuing consistency requires consideration of how finance targeted at GHG -
intensive activities can support pathways . A focus on individual financing or investment 
decisions that are consistent with a pathway towards low GHG emission and climate -resilient 
development is not straightforward owing to the significant potential range of what pathways may be followed for achieving the broader goals in Article 2. The trend towards developing climate, green or sustainable finance taxonomies, as seen across multiple public actor initiatives, can support the identification of activities that are consistent with such pathways, but may risk excluding necessary investment in high -emission sectors or activities that can 
support the overall transition to such pathways. These may be in areas where activities that are consistent are not yet available at scale owing to technological innovation (e.g. steel and/or cement processes), where activities are needed to enable the transition (e.g. financing 
of mining activities, road building), or where financing is needed to wind down or responsibly manage the retiring of high- emission activities and transition communities away from their 
reliance (e.g. coal phase- out policies  and subsidies).  
60. Transition finance taxonomies and transition bonds are being developed for private 
finance actors to finance, for example, transitional activities  in the context of financing just 
transitions, which implies projects that meet certain conditions, such as displacing more carbon -intensive options compared with industry norms; and enabling wider application or 
integration of less -carbon -intensive options.  
61. Further consideration of climate- resilient development pathways is necessary to 
complement  existing approaches . The mapped approaches include a strong focus on actions 
linked to achieving the goal in Article 2, paragraph 1(a), of the Paris Agreement, namely financing investments related to low GHG emissions, and to mitigating the physical and transition -related risk s of shifting from high - to low -emission development trajectories. 
There appears to be limited evidence of the degree to which financial actors are aligning their investment mandates with climate resilience goals linked to Article 2, paragraph 1(b), of the  
Paris Agreement. There is a view that focusing on proper climate- related risk disclosure 
should result in better, more resilient investment and financing decisions as an end in and of itself, while other views have recognized the existing gaps in guidance  and understanding on 
how to proactively engage on this element.  
62. Stakeholders may take action across a number of areas to support advancing 
efforts in relation to the goal in Article 2, paragraph 1(c) . These include:  
(a) In public policy and finance, promotin g opportunities to make sustainable 
recovery packages consistent with the goals of the Paris Agreement in the short term and 
setting in place financial policies and regulations for achieving net zero commitments in the long term;  
(b) Ensuring that just transi tion financing is incorporated into approaches to align 
action with the goals of the Paris Agreement or into classifications of consistency with those goals, including in supporting vulnerable developing countries at risk of climate impacts in gaining access to capital to support their climate -resilient development, and in supporting the 
shift of trade flows away from economic activities that are inconsistent with those goals; 
(c) Further clarifying the differences or complementarities between climate 
finance r elated to Article 9 of the Paris Agreement and the long -term goal under Article 2, 
paragraph 1(c).  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
32  Annex II * 
  Executive summary of the first report on the determination 
of the needs of developing country Parties related to 
implementing the Convention and the Paris Agreement  
[English only]  
I. Introduction   
1. The first NDR1 provides an overview of qualitative and quantitative information 
based on available data and evidence from reports at the national, regional and global level. 
As such, the first NDR does not constitute an assessment of the needs of developing country Parties: the numbers of reported and costed needs are higher in the reports of some countries 
than of others. This does not imply that the latter have no or fewer needs; rather , this may be 
due to the lack of available data, tools and capacity for determining and costing needs.  
II. Context and mandate  
2. COP  24 requested the SCF to prepare, every four years, an NDR for consideration by 
the COP, starting at COP  26, and the CMA, starting at CMA  3. The COP also requested the 
SCF to collaborate, as appropriate, with the o perating entities of the Financial Mechanism, 
the subsidiary and constituted bodies, multilateral and bilateral channels, and observer 
organizations.2 
3. COP  25 and CMA  2 encouraged the SCF to present, to the extent possible, 
disaggregated information in relation to, inter alia, mapping data availability and gaps by 
sector, assessing climate finance flows and presenting information on the determination of 
the needs of developing country Parties related to implementing the Convention and the Paris Agreement.
3 COP  25 and CMA  2 also encouraged the SCF,  in implementing its strategic 
outreach plan, to build on existing efforts to reach out to developing country Parties and 
relevant developing country stakeholders when generating data and informat ion for the 
determination of the needs of developing country Parties related to implementing the 
Convention and the Paris Agreement.4 
III. Scope and approach  
A. Scope  
4. The first NDR  presents quantitative  information  (hereinafter  referred  to as costed  
needs)  and qualitative  information  (hereinafter  referred  to as needs)  on the needs  of 
developing country Parties . Quantitative information was compiled from costed needs at the 
project level and those derived from economic modelling in reports at the national, regional 
and global level and other sources. Qualitative information was derived from descriptions of 
planned  activities, strategic directions, national priorities and action plans in the same 
sources.  
5. To the extent possible and on the basis of the available information, the first NDR 
contains an analysis and presentation of the needs of developing country Partie s by time 
 
 * For a list of acronyms and abbreviations, see document 
FCCC/CP/2021/10/Add.2−FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/7/Add.2.  
 1 Available at https://unfccc.int/documents/307595 . 
 2 Decision 4/CP.24, paras. 13– 14.  
 3 Decisions 11/CP.25, para. 9; and 5/CMA.2, para. 9.  
 4 Decisions 11/CP.25, para. 12; and 5/CMA.2, para. 12.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
 33 frame, geographical region, thematic area, means of implementation, and sector and 
subsector (chap. 2). The report reflects information and data on needs as mentioned in the national, regional and global reports. The needs are dynamically changing and may depend on different factors, such as temperature scenarios, mitigation pathways and adaptive 
capacity, extreme weather events, adverse effects of trade and economic barriers, and social 
factors such as poverty.  
6. Further, the first NDR illustrates processes and approaches for determining needs 
(chap. 3). It also maps out available tools and methodologies for determining and prioritizing needs, including sector -specific methodologies and tools, and advantages of and challenges 
in applying them (chap.  4). Finally, the report highlights opportunities, challenges and gaps 
in relation to determining needs (chap. 5).  
7. The first NDR comprises an executive summary and a technical report. The executive 
summary  was prepared by the SCF, whereas the technical rep ort was prepared by experts 
under the guidance of the SCF but remains a product of the external experts. The technical report has benefited from extensive inputs from Parties and stakeholders.  
B. Sources of information  
8. The first NDR has been compiled from reports prepared by developing country 
Parties, specifically those submitted to the UNFCCC, and reports developed by regional and 
global institutions. Such national re ports include ACs, BURs, LEDS, NAPs, NAPAs, NCs, 
NDCs, TAPs and TNAs.  
9. Further sources of inf ormation are the submissions received from Parties and non -
Party stakeholders in response to the call for evidence issued by the SCF.5 
C. Approach  
10. The technical work comprised a review of literature and sources of available 
information and data, and quantitative and qualitative data collection and analysis, 
complemented by outreach activities. Data  and information were systematically collected by 
the technical team under the guidance of the SCF co -facilitators for the first NDR.  
11. The SCF periodically considered the outputs of the technical team and the input 
derived from regional meetings, and provided guidance on the development  of the first NDR, 
including during conference calls and in- person meetings.  
12. In preparing the first NDR, the technical team noted data inconsistencies, gaps and 
interpretation challenges, as referred to in paragraph 59 below. Efforts were made to 
overcome these challenges, such as identifying reporting overlaps on the basis of the reporting guidelines and avoiding double counting in aggregating and presenting the data.  
IV. Key findings 
A. Overview of the needs of developing country Parties  
1. Information and data from national reports  
13. National reports submitted by developing country Parties as part of the UNFCCC 
process contain information on their needs related to implementing the Convention and the 
Paris Agreement. There are nine types of national report, which serve different purpose s 
under the Convention and the Paris Agreement, with reported needs varying in terms of 
 
 5 See https://unfccc.int/documents/231567 . The deadline of the call for evidence was extended to 30 
October 2020, by which 34 submissions had been received. All submissions are available at  
https://unfccc.int/topics/climate -finance/workstreams/needs -report/repository-of -information -on-the -
needs -of-developing-country- parties . FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
34  thematic and sectoral coverage, time frame and granularity of detail. In total, 563 documents 
were included in the analysis for the first NDR.6 
14. Figure 1 provides an overview of the articulation of the needs of developing country 
Parties, including overall costed needs, across the nine types of national report submitted by developing country Parties to the UNFCCC.
7 The overall costed needs by type of report are 
based on  the information on activities with associated costs included in the corresponding 
individual national reports. The needs included in national reports are identified using a top -
down approach (i.e. needs that are typically estimated using economy- wide or s ectoral 
modelling techniques) or a bottom- up approach (i.e. needs that are typically identified from 
a project pipeline). Developing country Parties periodically update their national reports 
submitted to the UNFCCC, reflecting changing circumstances and improvements in their 
data-collection processes and analysis. Therefore, data and information on needs may not be 
exhaustive as the needs are dynamically changing.  
 
Note : Ranges of costs included where available.  
(a) Insights from quantitative data on needs 
15. The needs identified and articulated by developing country Parties across the nine 
types of national report encompass a wide range of financial, technology development and 
 
 6 Only the most recent submissions to the UNFCCC were used in the analysis  as Parties regularly 
update information on their needs to reflect changing circumstances. To avoid double counting where 
Parties may have provided the same information in different reports (e.g. BURs and NDCs), each type of report is treated separately, without aggregation across them.  
 
7 Needs are catalogued in the analysis at the most granular level at which information was provided (i.e. a project or activity expressed as a need by a developing country is counted as a single activity; if activity -level information was not provided, needs are counted at the sector level; if sector -level 
information was not provided, needs are counted at the thematic level, etc.). Depending on the nature of the report, it is possible that the priorities and programmes cons ist of multiple projects and action 
items. See chap. 1 of the first NDR for details on the scope of the quantitative and qualitative 
information collected from national reports.  
FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
 35 transfer, and capacity -building needs. The level of detail in the information provided varies 
in terms of the description of needs and their associated costs, if specified. While some Parties 
express costed needs for adapta tion or mitigation purposes, other communicate needs at the 
activity or sector level.  
16. As at 31 May 2021, NDCs from 153 Parties included 4,274 needs, with 1,782 costed 
needs identified across 78 NDCs, cumulatively amounting to USD  5.8–5.9 trillion up until 
2030. Of this amount, USD  502 billion is identified as needs requiring international sources 
of finance and USD  112 billion as sourced from domestic finance. For 89 per cent of the 
costed needs, information was not provided on possible sources of finance. Among the national reports, NCs from 149 Parties present the highest number (6,990) of identified needs, 
of which 1,137 costed needs cumulatively amount to USD 8.8– 8.9 trillion, with 5 per cent of 
the costed needs distributed across 45 NCs and 95 per cent in 1 NC. BURs from 62 Parties 
indicated 2,044 needs, of which 535 needs are costed, cumulatively amounting to USD  11.5 
trillion, with 5 per cent distributed across 60 BURs and 95 per cent across 2 BURs, thereby 
representing the highest amount of costed nee ds identified across the nine types of national 
report. These figures should be viewed in the light of the size and nature of developing 
country Parties’ economies and the scale of climate impacts.  
(i) Thematic distribution of costed needs  
17. As shown in table 1, cumulatively, identified costed mitigation needs tend to be larger 
than costed adaptation needs across the reports that cover all thematic areas such as BURs, 
NCs and NDCs. The overall amount of costed adaptation needs is comparable to the overall 
amount of costed mitigation needs expressed in NCs (43 and 56 –57 per cent, respectively). 
In the case of NDCs, the overall identified costed mitigation and adaptation needs (50 per 
cent) are comparable to the amount of costed cross -cutting needs (50 per cent), noting that 
the costed needs expressed as cross -cutting are largely a reflection of one NDC. Although 
some developing countries provided information on costed needs for mitigation and 
adaptation by sector and subsector, this information was not provided across all reports. Therefore, it was not possible to provide a comprehensive and accurate overall amount of 
costed needs by sector and subsector in the first NDR.  
Table 1  
Overview of sources of reported costed needs of developing countries by typ e of national report 
submitted to the UNFCCC  
 Costed needs (USD billion)  
Report  Total  Mitigation  Adaptation Cross- cutting  Other  
AC 44.10 (100%)  – 44.10 (100%)  – – 
BUR  11 465.53 –11 465.90  
(100%)  5 286.94 –5 287.31  
(46%)  3 628.81  
(32%)  2 550.01  
(22%)  – 
LEDS  1 707.15 –1 707.35  
(100%)  1 407.15 –1 407.34  
(82%)  300.00 
(18%)  – – 
NAP  135.02 –135.03 
(100%)  – 135.02 
(100%)  – – 
NAPA  10.05  
(100%)  – 10.05  
(100%)  – – 
NC 8 845.85 –8 934.94  
(100%)  5 019.30 –5 033.83  
(56–57%)  3 812.06 –3 882.07  
(43%)  2.23 
(>0%)  12.25 –16.81 
(>0%)  
NDC  5 817.48 –5 888.56  
(100%)  2 156.05 –2 156.13  
(37%)  764.24 –835.24 
(13–14%)  2 893.39  
(49–50%)  3.81 
(>0%)  
TAP  40.74  
(100%)  21.97  
(54%)  18.76  
(46%)  – 0.01 
(>0%)  
TNA  88.24 –92.33 
(100%)  30.33 –34.33 
(34–37%)  57.9– 57.98  
 (63–68%)  0.01 
(>0%)  – 
Notes : (1) Ranges of costs included where available. (2) The percentages given are the percentages of the type of 
costed need for each report type.  
18. Although developing country Parties identified more adaptation than mitigation 
needs, more costs were identified for the latter. This may not imply that mitigation needs are FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
36  greater, but rather be due to lack of available data, tools and capacity for asses sing adaptation 
needs (see the information on challenges and gaps in paras. 61– 66 below).  
19. Available information related to costed needs varies across regions (see table 2). 
African countries included 1,529 needs in their NDCs, of which 874 were costed, amo unting 
to USD  2.5 trillion. NDCs of countries in the Asia -Pacific region included 1,677 needs, of 
which 630 needs were costed, cumulatively amounting to USD  3.2–3.3 trillion.  Of the 771 
needs expressed in the NDCs of countries in the Latin America and Cari bbean region, 166 
NDCs included costed needs, cumulatively amounting to USD  168.2 –168.3 billion, of which 
almost 60 per cent was in one NDC. NDCs of developing countries from the Eastern 
European region included 282 needs, of which 112 were costed, cumulat ively amounting to 
USD  9.36 billion.  
(ii) Regional distribution of costed needs  
Table 2  
Number and cost of needs expressed in nationally determined contributions by region 
Region  Number of expressed 
needs  Number of expressed 
needs with financial 
information (i.e. costed 
needs)  Costed needs based on 
available financial 
information (USD billion)  
African States  1 529 874 2 459.56 –2 460.56  
Asia-Pacific States  1 677 630 3 180.39 –3 250.39  
Eastern European 
States  282 112 9.36 
Latin American and 
Caribbean States  771 166 168.18 –168.26  
Western European 
and other States  15 – – 
Note : Ranges of costs included where available.  
20. Some  Parties reported information on potential needs related to averting, minimizing 
and addressing loss and damage, either through specific adaptation activities that include 
objectives related to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage; reference d 
damage incurred owing to recent climate -related events such as droughts and severe weather; 
or modelled potential future impacts of climate on GDP or economic losses in a given year (e.g. 2030 or 2050). The information was also reported in the context of  national 
circumstances, climate impacts and/or needs depending on the reporting Party.  
21. As noted in paragraph 5 above, needs expressed in national reports are dynamically 
changing and, therefore, data and information thereon may not be exhaustive. While the 
number of needs and costed needs commu nicated in national reports is lower for some 
regions than others, this does not mean that those regions have no or fewer needs. Rather, this may  be due to lack of available data, tools and capacity for determining a nd costing 
needs. Therefore, the number of needs and costed needs compiled from national reports available at the time of preparation of the first NDR should not be used to draw comparisons of the actual needs across regions.   FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
 37 (b) Insights from qualitative dat a on needs  
Figure 2  
Needs expressed by developing countries in national reports by theme, region and means of 
implementation  
 
 
 
FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
38  Figure 3  
Needs expressed by developing countries in national reports by sector 
 
 
FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
 39 (i) Thematic distribution  
22. Overall, needs related to adaptation are mentioned more often than those related to 
mitigation in all report types except BURs and LEDS, indicating greater attention to 
supporting developing countries’ expressed adaptation needs. For example, as shown in 
figure 2, NDCs i ncluded 1,991 needs for adaptation and 1,956 for mitigation.  
(ii) Regional distribution 
23. When the number of expressed needs across the nine national report types is 
considered, developing country Parties in the Africa and Asia -Pacific regions identified 
comparab le numbers of needs across the national reports with broad thematic and sectoral 
coverage such as BURs, NCs and NDCs, comparable with the Latin America and Caribbean region only in the case of BURs (see figure 2, section 2.2). Developing country Parties in the 
Asia-Pacific region used NAPs and TAPs to further specify adaptation needs, as more than 
half of the needs identified in NAPs and TAPs were from this region. Developing country 
Parties in the Latin America and Caribbean, and Eastern European regions expressed more 
needs in their NCs than in other national reports . Latin American  and Caribbean Parties 
expressed a considerable number of adaptation needs in adaptation- specific national r eports 
(e.g. ACs and NAPs) when compared with the overall number of needs expressed in their BURs and NDCs. Developing country Parties in the African region expressed more needs 
through TNAs compared with other regions, reporting 993 needs compared with the 642 
needs identified by Parties in the Asia -Pacific region.  
(iii) Distrib ution by means of implementation  
24. Qualitative data show a significant prevalence of capacity -building and technology 
development and transfer needs, which may in part be due to the resources developing countries can access to support the identification of t hese needs. The number of capacity -
building needs is higher than finance needs and technology development and transfer needs 
identified in the nine national report types except for TNAs (see figure 2, section 2.3). 
Capacity -building needs expressed across the national reports typically cover areas such as 
research, training and education, awareness -raising, institutional strengthening and 
coordination, and policy development.  
(iv) Sectoral and subsectoral distribution  
25. On the basis of the number of mitigation nee ds expressed across the nine national 
report types, energy  is the lead sector for climate change mitigation actions, followed by  land 
use and forestry, transport, agriculture, and waste and sanitation (see figure 3, section 3.1).  
26. When considering mitigation needs by sector and subsector, the nine types of national 
report show that most needs in the energy sector relate to requests for support for the energy 
efficiency and renewable energy subsectors, albeit with some variation betw een them. In 
NDCs, needs for renewable energy development were identified almost twice as frequently 
as those for energy efficiency (399 and 261, respectively) but the total nominal value of 
energy efficiency projects was 1.5 times larger than that of rene wable energy projects 
(USD  377.22 billion and USD 198.08 billion, respectively). In BURs and NCs, more needs 
related to renewable energy than to energy efficiency were identified. TNAs included a larger variation among energy subsectors, including the deve lopment of natural gas, the phasing-
out of inefficient subsidies, the exploration of carbon capture and storage, and the development of the efficient use of coal.  
27. The majority of expressed mitigation needs in the land- use and forestry sector  
represented a few densely forested countries, such as Bhutan, Brazil, the Congo, Costa Rica, 
Ghana, Guyana, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Malaysia, Papua New Guinea, 
Suriname, the United Republic of Tanzania and Viet Nam. This sector covers key activities such a s reforestation, forest fire prevention, social forestry development, sustainable forest 
management, development of sustainable supply chains for forest commodities, spatial planning forestry research and some land- use activities, such as management of liv estock. 
Data in NCs and NDCs showed that, within this sector, needs related to reforestation are the largest needs expressed in financial terms.  
28. On the basis of the number of adaptation -related needs expressed across the nine 
national  report types, agricul ture and water are the two lead sectors for climate change FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
40  adaptation actions, followed by disaster prevention and preparedness, coastal zone 
management and health (see figure 3, section 3.2).  
29. Adaptation  needs in the agriculture sector cover a wide variet y of land uses that 
overlap with other key sectors . Needs related to agroforestry and irrigation, for example, also 
touch on areas or land managed under the forestry and water sectors. Needs related to the 
agriculture sector relate to crop diversification,  development of resistant crops, land and soil 
management, livestock management, and fisheries and aquaculture.  
30. Adaptation  needs in the water sector are dominated by the need for water distribution 
infrastructure, water harvesting and irrigation. Other types of need in this sector vary widely 
and cover water resource management, water storage and water sanitation. In NDCs, about 
38 per cent of expressed needs in the water sector include financial information. Water 
distribution infrastructure, including was tewater treatment, was the largest need in financial 
terms across all types of report.  
(c) Other areas of needs  
31. Developing country Parties also communicate other areas of needs that involve issues 
such as gender, indigenous peoples and vulnerable groups. However, across the nine national report types, less than 10 per cent of needed activities referred to gender or specific 
communities. Where these topics are included in national reports, information tends to relate 
to commitments, policies and/or strategies.  
32. Some reports that expressed needs for policy development were linked to the SDGs 
and the Addis Ababa Action A genda. In general, the implementation of climate actions is 
mainstreamed in SDG -related actions. However, a few reports expressed needs focusing on 
institution -building and policy development, aiming to link climate commitments with the 
SDGs; for example, Jordan’s need to align its intended nationally determined contribution 
with the SDGs, and Morocco’s needs (expressed in its NCs) to strengthen the National 
Institutional Framework of Climate Change through a regulatory system based on the 
Framework Law on the National Charter for Environment and Sustainable Development.  
2. Information and data from reports by regional and global actors  
33. Information and data on the needs of developing countries are also available from 
regional and global reports. For the mitigat ion needs of developing countries, these reports 
use a mix of climate economic modelling for scenarios of below 2 °C, ranging from USD  2.4 
trillion to USD  4.7 trillion in annual energy -related investment needs globally;
8 investment 
opportunities based on stated national plans and targets including and beyond NDCs, ranging from USD  23.8–29.4 trillion for emerging markets from 2016 to 2030;
9 and investment 
estimates for achieving conditional NDC targets using carbon prices , for example USD  715 
billion in Africa10 (see figure 4 for an example of energy investment needs identified by the 
International Renewable Energy Agency11). 
 
 8 See Collum DL, Zhou W, Bertram C, et al. 2018. Energy investment needs for fulfilling the Paris 
Agreement and achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. Nature Energy . 3(7): pp.589 –599. 
International Energy Agency. 2020. World Energy Model Documentation. Paris: IEA. Available at 
https://iea.blob.core.windows.net/assets/bc4936dc -73f1 -47c3- 8064-
0784ae6f85a3/WEM_Documentation_WEO2020.pdf ; and  International Renewable Energy Agency. 
2020. Global Renewables Outlook. Energy transformation 2050. Abu Dhabi: International Renewable 
Energy Agency . Available at https://www.irena.org/publications/2020/Apr/Global-Renewables -
Outlook -2020 . 
 9 International Finance Corporation. 2017. Climate Investment Opportunities in South Asia. An IFC 
Analysis . Washington, D.C.: International Finance Corporation. Available at 
https://www.ifc.org/wps/wcm/connect/topics_ext_content/ifc_externa l_corporate_site/climate+busine
ss/resources/final+climate+investment+opportunities+in+south+asia+-+an+ifc+analysis . 
 10 African Development Bank. 2021. Needs of African Countries Related to Implementing the UN 
Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement . Available at https://unfccc.int  
/sites/default/files/resource/Needs%20Report_African%20counties_AfDB_FINAL.pdf . 
 11 For the pur pose of the first NDR, various data sources were used to illustrate needs of developing 
country Parties, without prejudice to the meaning of this term in the context of the Convention and the 
Paris Agreement, including but not limited to Parties not includ ed in Annex I to the Convention and 
other classifications used in regional and global reports.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
 41 Figure 4  
Shares of annual average clean energy investments in the  International Renewable Energy A gency  
transforming energy scenario, by region, 2016– 2050  
 
Source : International Renewable Energy Agency. 2019. Transforming the energy system –  and holding the line on 
rising global temperatures . Abu Dhabi: International Renewable Energy Agency. Available  at 
www.irena.org/publications/2019/Sep/Transforming- the-energy -system . 
34. Reports based on energy –economy models note that developing country regions have 
the largest investment gaps compared with historical trends to achieving climate scenarios in 
line with the Paris Agreement. Three to fourfold increases of investment are necessary in 
both renewable energy and energy efficiency across many regions that include developi ng 
countries.  
35. Regional and global reports also provide estimates related to adaptation and resilience. 
Costs based on bottom -up national and sector -based studies (ranging from USD  140 billion 
to USD 300 billion annually by 2030) measuring impacts to GDP (f or example, ranging from 
USD  289.2 billion to USD 440.5 billion up to 2030 in Africa) and the incremental investment 
needed to upgrade or retrofit infrastructure stock (ranging from USD  11 billion to USD 670 
billion in annual incremental costs) are most pr evalent.  
36. To make current and future infrastructure climate- resilient, annual costs as a 
percentage of GDP are at least double in countries with emerging market economies, low -
income countries and small States compared with the costs in high -income countries, that is 
1.1–1.49 per cent compared with 0.45 per cent. Investment needs expressed as a percentage 
of GDP for upgrading new infrastructure and coastal protection are proportionally greater in lower -income countries and small States, w hile retrofitting existing infrastructure is the 
major cost component in countries with emerging market economies. However, the reports 
also noted that specific knowledge on the degree of exposure of infrastructure to natural 
hazards, related to their location, intensity and level of risk, could affect the incremental cost 
of making infrastructure climate -resilient (e.g. 3 per cent of total investment as opposed to 
8–45 per cent) (see figure 5).
12 
 
 12 As footnote 11 above.  
FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
42  Figure 5  
Public investment needs for resilience of physical infrastructure, by country grouping 
(gross domestic product weighted average)  
 
Source : International Monetary Fund. 2020. Fiscal Monitor. Policies for the Recovery. Washington, 
D.C.: International Monetary Fund.  
37. The information and data generated from the national, regional and global reports 
cannot be compared with each other as the reports have different time frames, objectives and 
scopes. However, all of the reports may be viewed as complementary in offering different insights, granularity and processes and approaches for identifying needs.  
B. Processes and approaches for determination of needs of developing 
country Parties  
1. National institutional arrangements  
38. Developing country Parties have varied institutional arrangements for identifying 
climate change needs, which are described in most of their national reports submitted to the 
UNFCCC. Most countries have established specialized institutions within their ministries 
and departments whose mandate is to spearhead climate change actions. These instit utions 
have various names such as climate change directorate, climate change unit, interministerial 
climate change coordination committee, climate change technical working group and climate 
research centre.  
39. Good practice in ensuring buy -in and effective co ordination of the needs identification 
process is the engagement of high- level decision -making government offices at the initial 
stage of the climate change needs identification process. In addition, the engagement of other 
stakeholders and the assignment of specific roles and responsibilities to participants representing various sectors and interest groups at both the national and subnational level 
was noted in the reports of the majority of developing countries.  
40. Institutional arrangements for needs determ ination vary widely across countries. 
However, in most countries the ministry responsible for environmental affairs coordinates the process through a focal point or a committee.  
41. The focal point leads the needs identification process and can adopt varying 
arrangements for stakeholder consultation. The stakeholder consultation process leads to 
determining the institutional arrangements for the needs identification process. Some of the 
most common institutional arrangements include focal point only, focal point with other 
ministries and an interministerial committee. Among these, the interministerial committee is 
the most inclusive and likely to provide more detailed information on needs across sectors.  
2. Needs identification process  
42. The needs identification proc ess of most countries starts with consultations between 
the lead ministry and the country’s leadership. This ensures country ownership and top- level 
support in the needs identification process (see figure 6).  
FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
 43 Figure 6  
Common steps adopted by countries’ com mittees or units for identifying climate change needs  
 
43. Stakeholder consultations are an integral part of the needs  identification process. 
During the initial phase, background information is collected and assessments are carried out 
to help scope the needs. The stakeholders consulted are mainly from government line 
ministries, though in some instances they include non- governmental organizations and the 
private sector. Local communities are the least consulted stakeholders during the process.  
44. In most of the national reports, the description of the needs identification process does 
not explicitly mention inclusivity aspe cts. Needs related to gender and local communities are 
captured in some reports emanating from those processes. However, where the needs 
identification process has projects and programmes as part of its output, gender and other 
inclusivity aspects of various stakeholders were mostly elaborated in the project or 
programme documents.  
3. Processes and approaches used by other actors, namely multilateral climate funds, 
multilateral development banks and United Nations agencies  
45. MDBs and United Nations agencies play a critical role in supporting developing 
countries in their needs identification process. In most cases, these agencies use experts 
during country -driven needs identification consultation forums to provide insights and share 
data that may help developing countries better identify and report their needs.  
46. In other instances, MDBs and United Nations agencies provide financial and technical 
support for developing countries in the needs identification process. This support i s used to 
carry out in- depth sectoral analysis to identify pathways within these sectors where 
considerable effort is needed and where greater impacts can be achieved. For countries that 
have benefited from this support for their second NDCs, their reports  provide more granular 
information on needs, including by sector, compared with their first NDCs.  
47. The multilateral climate funds established under the Convention, namely the GEF, 
including the special climate funds managed by the GEF (the Special Climate C hange Fund 
and the Least Developed Countries Fund), the Green Climate Fund and the Adaptation Fund, 
also play a critical role in providing financial support for countries in facilitating their climate 
change needs identification process. This is particular ly evident in the case of the Green 
Climate Fund and Adaptation Fund readiness support and the GEF Capacity- building 
Initiative for Transparency Trust Fund, which enable countries to identify and prioritize their climate change needs.  
C. Methodologies and und erlying assumptions used in determining the 
needs of developing country Parties  
1. Methodologies used at the national level by developing countries in national reports  
48. Developing country Parties identify adaptation and mitigation needs in preparing their 
national reports, following UNFCCC reporting guidelines and guidance and, in some cases, 
other methodologies adapted to their national context. The approaches taken vary depending 
on institutional and human capacities, cost, geography, time frame and data ava ilability.  
FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
44  49. Although recent national reports include more information about methodologies used 
to determine adaptation needs, overall, there is still more information about the 
methodologies used to determine mitigation needs than for adaptation needs. The types of methodology applied vary. Most methodologies used to identify mitigation needs are 
quantitative, while a lower number of qualitative methodologies are used to identify 
adaptation needs. However, in recent reports, some countries have used methodol ogies to 
identify both mitigation and adaptation needs.  
50. Countries in the Africa, Asia -Pacific, and Latin America and Caribbean regions 
present region -level information about methodologies applied to determine mitigation needs. 
Countries in the Africa and A sia-Pacific regions also present information about 
methodologies used to determine adaptation needs.  
51. UNFCCC reporting guidelines and guidance, such as those provided for TNA 
preparation, have facilitated identification of needs for technology transfer and capacity -
building related to mitigation and adaptation actions through methodologies such as the TNA 
methodology and the guidance for preparing a TAP.
13 However, the existing reporting 
guidelines and guidance do not include specific provisions on how to as sess these needs at 
the local level. As such, countries assess their needs on the basis of methodologies developed 
for application at the national or international level.  
52. Methodologies used by developing countries to determine mitigation needs include 
both top-down and bottom -up models for the energy and non- energy sectors. Bottom -up 
models are suited for studying options that have specific sectoral and technological 
implications. Top -down models are useful for studying broad macroeconomic and fiscal 
policies for mitigation, such as carbon or other environmental taxes. Methodologies applied 
to identify mitigation needs mainly focus on the cross -cutting, energy, greenhouse gas 
inventory preparation, waste, transport, agriculture, forestry, building and indust ry sectors.  
53. Methodologies used by developing countries to determine adaptation needs mostly 
include vulnerability assessments that determine the levels of risk and vulnerability for each 
sector. These methodologies mainly focus on the agriculture, ecosyste m and biodiversity, 
water and cross -cutting sectors.  
2. Methodologies used at the regional and global level  
54. For international and regional reports, top- down methodologies have been developed 
and applied to identify finance, technology development and transfer , and capacity -building 
needs. Such reports have provided alternative methodologies to developing countries that 
have been adapted to national circumstances and contexts and used to determine national 
needs.  
D. Challenges, opportunities and gaps in determining the needs of 
developing country Parties  
1. Opportunities  
55. There are several regional and global specialized institutions that can support 
countries in their needs identification process by providing expertise and data. Some of these 
institutions are United N ations agencies, to which countries have quick and easy access and 
which can be engaged with during the needs identification process to provide the required support.  
56. A number of platforms have been established by various institutions, including United 
Nations agencies and MDBs. These platforms offer a good opportunity for developing 
countries to share their experience and good practices in the needs identification process. 
Most developing countries are already using these platforms to share their experience . 
57. Several initiatives have been established that can help in the needs identification 
process. These initiatives include the establishment of emissions inventories, which provide 
some of the data and information that can facilitate the prioritization of se ctors and activities 
as part of the country’s climate change needs identification process.  
 
 13 Technology Executive Committee. 2020. Enhancing implementation of the results of technology 
needs assessments. Bonn: UNFCCC. Available at https://unfccc.int/ttclear/tec/brief13.html . FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
 45 2. Challenges  
(a) Challenges experienced in the preparation of the report  
58. In compiling the needs of developing country Parties from the various sources, efforts 
were made b y the technical team to overcome challenges such as identifying reporting 
overlaps so as to avoid double counting in aggregating and presenting the data.  
59. Nevertheless, the following challenges were encountered in collecting, categorizing, 
aggregating and presenting the data on needs:  
(a) Data inconsistencies : the classification of sectors and subsectors is not 
uniform across data sources, including in different sources of information and reports 
submitted by the same Party. This increases the risk of double counting, as cost estimates 
may be given in one repo rt by sector and in another report by activity, so the same activity 
may be captured and hence accounted for under the costs by sector. Issues related to the 
definitions of needs also introduce inconsistencies because needs are referred to as qualitative 
needs, investment needs or costs;  
(b) Data gaps : gaps in the coverage of information on costed needs by sector or 
subsector pose a significant challenge. These gaps are particularly evident for adaptation needs, which, compared with cost estimates for mitigation, remain limited. Significant data 
gaps r elated to capacity -building needs remain; these are predominantly characterized in 
qualitative terms. Further, information on methodologies used in producing and 
communicating information on needs in national reports is, in many cases, not included in 
the reports. In addition, methodological assumptions, which in most cases are not stated, may 
impact the interpretation of the data. The needs are dynamically changing and may depend 
on different factors such as temperature scenarios, mitigation pathways and a daptive 
capacity, extreme weather events, adverse effects of trade and economic barriers, and social 
factors such as poverty. Most reports, however, provide a snapshot of a Party’s needs. It 
should also be noted that not all Parties have submitted reports;  
(c) Data interpretation : when collecting, analysing and aggregating data and 
information on the needs of developing country Parties, best efforts have been made to ensure 
accuracy. When collecting and analysing the amounts of needs reported by developing 
country Parties in their national reports, different Parties apply their respective definitions 
and interpretations of needs. Needs may be reported as needs or activities needed to take 
climate action. Furthermore, costed needs may be determined in one nationa l report but not 
in the subsequent report, without stating whether the same amounts of costed needs apply.  
60. The following steps were undertaken to analyse, aggregate and present the data:  
(a) Analysis of data gaps and identification of areas for improvement;  
(b) Harmonization of data sets used for estimating the global total needs in order 
to minimize misalignment between information and data according to thematic areas, 
regions, sectors and time frames;  
(c) Presentation of quantified data in ranges of estimates where possible, instead 
of aggregating the amounts, to avoid possible data overlaps;  
(d) Use of case studies to highlight good practices and lessons learned in 
determining needs.  
(b) Challenges experienced by developing countries  
61. Institutional coordination was highlight ed as a major challenge in the needs 
determination process. The coordination challenge affected needs identification between 
sectors and between levels of governance, namely the local and national level. Two of the 
identified drivers of limited coordinatio n were the lack of specialized institutions within 
ministries with the mandate to spearhead climate change actions, and the involvement of 
ministries other than the environment ministry in climate change planning in the needs 
identification process.  
62. While most countries have used methodologies to identify and report their needs both 
qualitatively and quantitatively, costing these needs has been a major challenge and therefore most of these needs do not have accompanying cost estimates. This challenge is par ticularly FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
46  evident in deriving cost estimates for climate adaptation and enhancing resilience needs, and, 
in this context, deriving cost estimates for averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage needs, since developing countries’ adaptation actions cannot always be included in 
short -term projects, but rather require long- term interventions that are difficult to estimate in 
monetary terms.  
3. Gaps  
63. Developing countries have taken significant steps to improve their needs 
determination process but capacity gaps within lead institutions continue to hinder progress. 
These capacity gaps vary widely across countries and include the lack of qualified personnel 
to spearhead the needs identification process and the lack of institutional -level capacity.  
64. Limited availability of granular data at the sector and subsector level constitutes one 
of the major gaps identified by developing countries. As a result, many developing countries 
provide cost estimates for overall needs rather than disaggregated by theme or sector.  
65. The lack of specialized national institutions to spearhead the means of implementation 
under the Convention, such as technology development and transfer, and capacity -building, 
limits the ability of some developing countries to track needs continuously and  identify 
additional and emerging needs.  
66. Limited detailed guidance on the structure and content of reports submitted to the 
UNFCCC resulted in needs with varying levels of detail across countries. Where such 
guidance was available, for instance for TNAs, t he needs were identified at a higher level of 
detail compared with needs communicated in other national reports.  
4. Insights into determining needs using available resources: country case studies and 
experience 
67. Country case studies have shown that the needs i dentification process provides an 
opportunity for countries to translate their needs into investment opportunities and climate 
actions, including by using existing support mechanisms to prioritize and cost identified 
needs and turn needs into project ideas  for support. For example, through the TNA process, 
some countries identified technology support needs and submitted a request for technology 
assistance to formulate project ideas related to technology development and transfer.  
68. Costing adaptation and mitigation needs for action is becoming a crucial area of work 
at the national level in order to better identify gaps where financial support is needed and ways to leverage public and private resources.  
5. Co-benefits related to addressing the needs of developing country Parties, such as in 
relation to the Sustainable Development Goals, disaster risk reduction and the Addis 
Ababa Action Agenda  
69. For most countries, climate change needs are aligned with the targets set out in the 
2030 Agenda  for Sustainable Development. As the SDGs are ideally indivisible, all 
developing country Parties covered in this report are taking action to address SDG  13 that 
relates to taking action to address climate change, and SDG 13 affects all the other SDGs.  
Overall, the needs identified by developing countries touch on all SDGs, with 75 per cent of 
NDCs having linkages to SDGs 2, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 15 and 17 . 
70. In their national reports, some developing country Parties refer to the Addis Ababa 
Action Agenda provision for mobilizing and aligning local resources for climate action. This 
is particularly evident  in countries that capture their climate action budgets under the national 
budgeting process.  
V. Recommendations  
71. The SCF invites the COP and the CMA to consider the following recommendations:  
(a) Encourage  developing country Parties and climate finance providers, as well 
as multilateral and financial institutions, private finance data providers and other relevant institutions, to enhance the availability of granular, country- level data on needs related to the 
implementation of the Convention and the Paris Agreement with a view to addressing existing data gaps;  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
 47 (b) Encourage developing country Parties to share best practices on determining 
needs, including regarding the institutional capacity conducive to determining needs;  
(c) Encourage  developing country Parties to provide, where possible, information 
on needs related to:  
(i) Gender -responsive climate action and the needs of indigenous peoples and 
vulnerable groups;  
(ii) Preparation of national reports to the UNFCCC, including reporting on the 
activities contained therein;  
(iii) Addressing and mitigating risks, including physical and tran sitional risks;  
(iv) Energy poverty as it relates to sustainable development;  
(v) Methodologies employed in the determination of the needs in their national 
reports to the UNFCCC, including, in accordance with reporting guidelines and where 
available, quantified da ta on needs;  
(d) Request  the SCF, in preparing future NDRs, to present available data and 
information on needs related to the recommendations referred to in paragraph 71(c) above;  
(e) Invite  the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism,  United Nations 
agencies, multilateral and bilateral financial institutions and other relevant institutions to 
make use of the information contained in the first NDR when supporting developing country 
Parties in identifying and costing needs;  
(f) Invite  the operating entities of the  Financial Mechanism to revise templates 
and guidance for developing countries when supporting their processes in identifying their needs with a view to enhancing availability of granular information on qualitative and quantitative needs;  
(g) Encourage  the ope rating entities of the Financial Mechanism,  United Nations 
agencies, multilateral and bilateral financial institutions and other relevant institutions to 
make available further information on methodologies related to determining and costing 
needs, especial ly for adaptation needs and incremental costs;  
(h) Encourage  developing country Parties to consider the insights on 
methodologies identified in the first NDR when costing and determining needs;  
(i) Encourage  developing country Parties to take advantage of availabl e resources 
through the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism, as well as other multilateral and 
bilateral actors, to strengthen institutional capacity for identifying and costing their needs in relation to implementing the Convention and the Paris  Agreement;  
(j) Request the SCF to engage with public and private financial institutions and to 
disseminate the findings of the first NDR;  
(k) Invite UNFCCC constituted bodies, in particular the Paris Committee on 
Capacity -building and the Adaptation Committee, to  consider the insights identified in the 
first NDR when implementing their respective workplans;  
(l) Encourage Parties, multilateral and financial institutions, academia, 
methodology developers, research institutions and other relevant actors to continue to develop methodologies for the determination of adaptation and resilience enhancement needs 
and, in this context, needs related to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage;  
(m) Encourage  the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism,  United Nations  
agencies, multilateral and bilateral financial institutions and other relevant institutions to 
provide financial and technical support to developing countries for updating the reporting of 
their qualitative and quantitative information and data on needs t o be considered in 
subsequent NDRs, as appropriate;  
(n) Encourage all actors, when determining needs for implementing the 
Convention and the Paris Agreement, to highlight linkages to the implementation of the 2030 
Agenda for Sustainable Development and applica tion of the Addis Ababa Action Agenda.  
12
th plenary meeting  
13 November 2021  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
48    Decision 6/CP.26  
  Report of the Green Climate Fund to the Conference of the 
Parties and guidance to the Green Climate Fund  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling decision 3/CP.17, annex,  
1. Welcomes  the reports of the Green Climate Fund to the Conference of the Parties at 
its twenty -sixth  session,1 including the list of actions taken by the Board of the Green Climate 
Fund (hereinafter referred to as the Board) in response to guidance received from the 
Conference of the Parties;  
2. Also welcomes  the continued efforts of the Green Climate Fund to make a significant 
and ambitious contribution to the global effort to meet the goals set by the international community in relation to combating climate change;  
3. Further welcomes  the progress of the Green Climate Fund in 2020– 2021, including 
in relation  to guidance provided by the Conference of the Parties:  
(a) The increase in the number of funding proposals approved, which brings the 
total amount approved by the Board to USD 10 billion to support  implementation of 190 
adaptation and mitigation projects and programmes in 127 developing countries;  
(b) The increase in the number of entities accredited by the Board, which brings 
the total number of accredited entities to 112, of which 72 are direct access entities;  
(c) The approval of its Updated Strategic Plan for 2020 –2023,
2 Integrated Results 
Management Framework and a results tracking tool;  
(d) The revision of its environmental and social policy to reaffirm its commitment 
to preventing sexual exploitation, sexual abuse and sexual harassment; administrative 
remedies and exclusions policy; and guidelines to facilitate consideration by the Board of Independent Redress Mechanism reports on requests for reconsideration, grievances and complaints;  
(e) The approval of it s evaluation policy;  
(f) The continued collaboration between the Green Climate Fund, the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network and the Technology Executive Committee;  
(g) The collaboration between the Green Climate Fund, the Adaptation Committee 
and the Least Developed Countries Expert Group;  
4. Welcomes  the long- term vision on complementarity, coherence and collaboration 
between the Green Climate Fund and the Global Environment Facility
3 and requests the 
Board to enhance coherence and complementarity with other clim ate finance delivery 
channels with a view to enhancing the impact and effectiveness of its work;  
5. Encourages  further collaboration and engagement between the Green Climate Fund, 
the Climate Technology Centre and Network and the Technology Executive Committe e, 
through continued joint work, as well as collaboration on events, and taking into consideration elements related to gender mainstreaming and observer engagement;  
6. Reiterates  the request to the Board to continue efforts to maintain the balance in the 
allocation of resources between adaptation and mitigation;  
 
 1 FCCC/CP/2020/5 and FCCC/CP/2021/8.   
 2 Contained in Green Climate Fund document GCF/B.27/21, annex II. Available at 
https://www.greenclimate.fund/document/gcf -b27-21.  
 3 Contained in Global Environment Facility document GEF/C.60/08, annex I. Available at 
https://www.thegef.org/council -meeting -documents/long-term -vision -complementarity -coherence-
and-collaboration -between -green . FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
 49 7. Encourages  the Board to further clarify the role of data and information from, inter 
alia, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, and traditional, local and indigenous 
knowledge and practices i n the assessment of concept notes, project preparation  funding 
applications and funding proposals;  
8. Also encourages  the Board to strengthen country ownership and regional management 
by proactively engaging national designated authorities in all aspects of t he project and 
programme cycle;  
9. Takes note  of the exceptional circumstances of the coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic 
and its significant impact on the implementation of the Board’s updated four -year workplan, 
recognizes  the Board’s efforts during that peri od and encourages  the Board to continue to 
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of its work;  
10. Takes note of the continued efforts of the Board to provide financial resources for 
activities relevant to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage in developing 
country Parties consistent with the existing investment , results framework  and funding 
windows and structures of the Green Climate Fund, including through the Project Preparation Facility and the Readiness and Preparatory Support Programme;   
11. Notes  the significant number of remaining policy gaps,  including updating the 
accreditation framework to include  approv ing the project -specific assessment  approach , 
updating the simplified approval process,  approving the policy on programmatic approaches , 
completing  polic ies related to the investment framework , and addressing matters related to 
the Private Sector Facility and strategy , as well as outstanding matters from the rules of 
procedure of the Board,
4 and urges  the Board to prioritize closing the policy gaps as a matter 
of urgency and to explore diversifying its selection of financial instruments  for addressing 
climate risk  including parametric insurance for climatic events;  
12. Takes note  of the engagement of the President of the Conference of the Part ies on the 
matter of granting privileges and immunities for the Green Climate Fund and its officials and invites  the Board to continue efforts to ensure that the Fund enjoys privileges and immunities 
as are necessary;  
13. Urges  the Board to finalize in a timel y manner its work related to the guidance and 
arrangements of the Conference of the Parties on financing for forests and alternative 
approaches  as mandated by decision 7/CP.21, paragraphs 23 –25; 
14. Encourages  the Board to continue the integration of gender considerations into its 
activities, including through its gender policy and by promoting gender balance across the 
structures of the Fund;  
15. Invites  the Board to consider ways of improving access to the Fund for local 
non-governmental and private sector organi zations ; 
16. Also i nvites  Parties to submit to the secretariat views and recommendations on 
elements of guidance for the Green Climate Fund via the submission portal
5 no later than 10 
weeks prior to the twenty -seventh session of the Conference of the Parties (November 2022);  
17. Requests  the Standing Committee on Finance to take into consideration the 
submissions referred to in paragraph 16 above when preparing its draft guidance for the  
Green Climate Fund for consideration by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -seventh 
session and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement at its fourth session (November 2022);  
18. Also requests  the Board of the Green Climate Fund to include in its annual report to 
the Conference of the Parties information on the steps it has taken to implement the guidance provided in this decision;  
 
 4 Available at https://www.greenclimate.fund/document/rules -procedure . 
 5 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx .  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
50  19. Takes note  of decision 11/CMA.3 and decides  to transmit to the Green Climate Fund 
the guidance from the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Paris Agreement contained in paragraphs 2 –8 of that decision.6 
12th plenary meeting  
13 November 2021
 
 6 In accordance with decision 1/CP.21, para. 61.   FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
 51   Decision 7/CP.26  
  Report of the G lobal Environment Facility to the Conference 
of the Parties and guidance to the G lobal Environment 
Facility 
 The Conference of the Parties , 
 Recalling  decision 11/CP.1, paragraph 1(c), and decision 13/CP.25,  
 Noting paragraph 9(b) of the  Instrument for the Establishment of the Restructured 
Global Environment Facility,1 
1. Welcomes  the reports of the Global Environment Facility to the Conference of the 
Parties at its twenty -sixth session and their addenda,2 including the responses of the Global 
Environment Facility to guidance received from the Conference of the Parties;  
2. Also welc omes  the work undertaken by the Global Environment Facility during its 
reporting period (1 July 2019 to 30 June 2021), including with regard to :  
(a) Approval of the climate change projects and programmes approved during the 
reporting period under the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund, the Least Developed 
Countries Fund and the Special Climate Change Fund;  
(b) Integration of  climate change priorities into its other focal areas and the 
reduction in greenhouse gas emissions achieved through such integration;  
(c) Improvement  in coordination with the Green Climate Fund;  
(d) Adoption of its  private sector engagement strategy;3  
(e) Adoption of the sustainable bond stra tegy for the Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund;4  
3. Encourages  the Global Environment Facility, as part of the eighth replenishment 
process, to duly consider ways to increase the financial resources allocated for climate action, including the climate c hange focal area and  climate co -benefits, taking into account the 
reporting requirement referred to in paragraph 6  of decision 12/CMA.3 , and to apply a 
coherent approach across its focal areas to prioritizing projects that generate environmental co-benefits;  
4. Calls upon developed country Parties to make financial contributions to the Global 
Environment Facility to contribute to a robust eighth replenishment of the Global Environment Facility to support developing countries in impleme nting the Convention and 
encourages  additional voluntary financial contributions to the eighth replenishment of the 
Global Environment Facility;  
5. Takes note  of ongoing discussions on the eighth replenishment process regarding its 
allocation policies under t he System for Transparent Allocation of Resources and invites  the 
Global Environment Facility to duly consider the needs and priorities of developing countr y 
Parties  when allocating resources to developing country Parties;  
6. Takes note  of the ongoing work of  the Global Environment Facility in monitoring the 
concentration and geographical and thematic coverage, as well as the effectiveness, efficiency and engagement, of the Global Environment Facility Partnership and encourages  
the Global Environment Facility to consider ways to enhance participation of additional 
 
 1 Global Environment Facility. 2019. Instrument for the Establishment of the Restructured Global 
Environment Facility . Washington, D.C.: Global Environment Facility. Available at 
https://www.thegef.org/documents/instrument -establishment -restructured -gef.  
 2 FCCC/CP/2020/1 and Add. 1 and FCCC/CP/2021/9 and Add.1.  
 3 See Global Environment Facility document GEF/C.59/07/Rev.01. Available at https://www.thegef.org/documents
. 
 4 See Global Environment Facility document GEF/C.59/12.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
52  national and regional entities from developing country Parties in the Partnership, including 
by allowing them to serve as executing agencies, as appropriate;  
7. Requests the Global Environment Facility t o consider ways to further enhance the role 
of national agencies and civil society organizations as executing agencies in order to enhance country ownership of projects and programmes funded by the Global Environment Facility and prevent implementing agenc ies from serving simultaneously as executing agencies ; 
8. Welcomes with appreciation  the contributions made by developed country Parties to 
the Least Developed Countries Fund, amounting to USD 605.3 million, and encourages  
additional voluntary financial contr ibutions to the Least Developed Countries Fund and the 
Special Climate Change Fund to support adaptation and technology transfer;  
9. Requests  the Global Environment Facility, as an operating entity of the Financial 
Mechanism of the Convention entrusted with t he operation of the Special Climate Change 
Fund, to continue to assist developing country Parties in accessing resources in an efficient manner;  
10. Calls  upon the Global Environment Facility to continue to improve the governance 
framework for its agencies an d the standards to which the implementing partners are 
accountable;  
11. Takes note that financial resources allocated for the non -grant instrument under the 
seventh replenishment of the Global Environment Facility increased to USD 136 million from USD 110 mil lion under the sixth replenishment  and encourages the Global 
Environment Facility, during its discussions on the instrument under the eighth replenishment, to continue to take into account needs and priorities of developing countries, 
as well as their diff erent national circumstances ;  
12. Requests  the Global Environment Facility to consider updating its policy on gender 
equality to include protection against discrimination;  
13. Recognizes that the Global Environment Facility does not impose minimum 
thresholds and/or specific types or sources of co- financing or investment mobilized in its 
review of individual projects and programmes ;
5 
14. Encourages  the Global Environment Facility to reinforce its efforts to engage with 
and mobilize resources from  the pr ivate sector under its  eighth replenishment;  
15. Takes note  of ongoing discussions  within the Global Environment Facility concerning  
the Small Grants Programme under the eighth replenishment and invites  the Global 
Environment Facility to consider increasing the funding ceiling per project to provide 
adequate financial and technical support to communities and civil society organizations;  
16. Urges the Global Environment Facility to enhance its support for projects that engage 
with stakeholders at the local level, a nd to continue to provide funding for projects related to 
technology training and scale up South– South cooperation and triangular cooperation with 
the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Centre and Network;  
17. Welcomes  the long- term vis ion on complementarity, coherence and collaboration 
between the Green Climate Fund and the Global Environment Facility6 and requests  the Global 
Environment Facility Council to enhance coherence and complementarity with other climate 
finance delivery chann els with a view to enhancing the impact and effectiveness of its work;  
18. Also requests the Global Environment Facility , as part of the eighth replenishment 
process, to take note of the needs and priorities for climate finance, including those identified in the first report on the determination of the needs of developing country Parties related to 
implementing the Convention and the Paris Agreement,
7 national ly determined 
 
 5 See Global Environment Facility document GEF/C.54/10/Rev.01, annex I, para. 5.  
  6 Contained in Global Environment Facility document GEF/C.60/08, annex I.  
 7 Standing Committee on Finance. 2021. First report on the determination of the needs of developing 
country Parties related to implementing the Convention and the Paris Agreement . Bonn: UNFCCC. 
Available at https://unfccc.int/topics/climate -finance/workstreams/determination -of-the-needs -of-
developing-country-parties/first-report -on-the-determination -of-the-needs -of-developing-country-
parties -related -to-implementing .  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
 53 contributions, national communications and nationa l adaptation plans, as well as in other 
sources of available information, including the biennial assessment and overview of climate 
finance flows and other relevant reports ; 
19. Invites  Parties to submit views and recommendations on elements of guidance for the  
Global Environment Facility via the submission portal8 no later than 10 weeks prior to the 
twenty -seventh session of the Conference of the Parties (November 2022);  
20. Requests  the Standing Committee on Finance to take into consideration the 
submissions referred to in paragraph 19 above when preparing its draft guidance for the  
Global Environment Facility for consideration by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -seventh session and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties 
to the Paris Agreement at its fourth session (November 2022);  
21. Also requests  the Global Environment Facility to include in its annual report to the 
Conference of the Parties information on the steps it has taken to implement the guidance provided in this decision;  
22. Takes note  of decision 12/CMA.3  and decides to tran smit to the Global Environment 
Facility the guidance from the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties 
to the Paris Agreement contained in paragraphs 2 –10 of that decision.
9 
12th plenary meeting  
13 November 2021
 
 8 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx .  
 9 In accordance with decision 1/CP.21, para. 61.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
54    Decision 8/CP.26  
  Compilation and synthesis of, and summary report on the  
in-session workshop on, biennial communications of 
information related to Article 9, paragraph 5, of the Paris Agreement  
 The Conference of the Parties , 
 Recalling Articles 4 and 11 of the Convention , 
 Also r ecalling  decision 12/CMA.1,  
1. Welcomes  the compilation and synthesis1 prepared by the secretariat of the 
information contained in the first biennial communications in accordance with Article 9, 
paragraph 5, of the Paris Agreement ; 
2. Also welcomes  the summary report2 on the biennial in- session workshop on 
information to be pr ovided by Parties in accordance with Article 9, paragraph  5, of the Paris 
Agreement  held on 11 June 2021;   
3. Takes note of decision 14/CMA.3.   
12th plenary meeting  
13 November 2021
 
 1 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/3.  
 2 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/5.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
 55   Decision 9/CP.26  
  Enhancing climate technology development and transfer 
through the Technology Mechanism  
 The Conference of the Parties , 
 Recalling decisions 2/CP.17, 1/CP.21, 15/CP.22, 21/CP.22, 13/CP.23, 15/CP.23, 
12/CP.24, 13/CP.24 and 14/CP.25,  
1. Welcomes the joint annual reports of the Technology Executive Committee and the 
Climate Technology Centre and Network for 2020 and 20211 and commends their efforts to 
advance their work amid the continuing pandemic;  
2. Welcomes  the continuing coll aboration of the Technology Executive Committee and 
the Climate Technology Centre and Network and invites  them to strengthen their 
collaboration and the provision of feedback between them with a view to ensuring coherence 
and synergy and effective implemen tation of the mandates of  the Technology Mechanism, 
inter alia by exploring the preparation of a joint programme;  
3. Welcomes the collaboration between  the Technology Mechanism and the Financial 
Mechanism and encourages  the continuation of  this collaboration;  
4. Takes note  of the challenges faced by the Technology Executive Committee and the 
Climate Technology Centre and Network in implementing their manda tes during the 
continuing pandemic and welcomes  their efforts to address these challenges;  
5. Also welcomes the implementation of monitoring and evaluation systems of the 
Technology Executive Committee and the Climate Technology Centre and Network and 
request s them to continue reporting on the results and impacts of their work;  
6. Welcomes the efforts of the Technology Executive Committee and the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network to draw upon the work of UNFCCC constituencies to increase the impacts of work under the Technology Mechanism;  
I. Activities and performance of the Technology Executive 
Committee in 2020 –2021 
7. Appreciates  the flexibility of the Technology Executive Committee in adapting to new 
ways of working, including through the use of virtual platforms for meetings and events, and 
in constructively engaging with its members, task forces, observers and other relevant stakeholders, thereby facilitating progress in successfully implementing activities in its rolling workplan for 2019– 2022 ;
2 
8. Invites Parties and relevant stakeholders to consider the recommendations of the 
Technology Executive Committee on ways forward and actions to be taken on the basis of the outcomes of the technical expert meetings on mitigation in 2020;
3 
9. Also invites Parties and relevant stakeholders to consider the key messages and 
recommendations of the Technology Executive Committee for 2020– 2021 on technology 
policy in the following areas: technology needs assessment; technologies for averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage in coastal zones; international collaborative research, development and demonstration; innovative approaches to stimulating the uptake of existing clean technology solutions; and endogenous capacities and technologies;
4 
 
 1 FCCC/SB/2020/4 and FCCC/SB/2021/5.  
 2 Available at https://unfccc.int/ttclear/tec . 
 3 See document FCCC/SB/2020/4, annex III.  
 4 See documents FCCC/SB/2020/4 and FCCC/SB/2021/5.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
56  10. Notes with appreciation the collaboration of the Technology Executive Committee 
with other constituted bodies and relevant organizations in implementing its workplan 
activities;  
11. Notes that private sector engagement is crucial for translating research, development 
and demonstration results into market -deployable climate technologies and welcomes  the 
activities of the Technology Executive Committee in this regard;  
12. Also welcomes  the successful org anization of the Technology Day events in 2020–
20215 to promote innovative approaches t o adaptation technologies related to climate -smart 
agriculture and ocean and coastal adaptation and encourages  the Technology Executive 
Committee to continue using such events to strengthen the impacts of its work and to reach 
target audiences;  
13. Commends the Technology Executive Committee on its efforts to mainstream gender 
considerations in its work, including through a structured approach that strives to ensure that 
gender focal points play an active role and gender balance is achieved with regard to the 
speakers at all its events in 2021, and looks forward  to its continuing efforts i n this regard ;  
14. Encourages the Technology Executive Committee  to further increase its ou treach and 
stakeholder engagement  activities  to disseminate its polic y and publications, especially to 
target audiences;  
15. Notes  with concern  that the Technology Executive Committee membership 
composition prevents certain Parties from fully participating in its work;  
II. Activities and performance of the Climate Technology Centre 
and Network in 2020 –2021 
16. Welcomes the initiative of the Climate Techn ology Centre and Network to adapt to 
operational challenges resulting from the continuing pandemic by focusing on the 
implementation of technical assistance requests and making use of online stakeholder 
engagement and capacity -building activities; 
17. Apprecia tes the multi- country, regional and programmatic approaches of Climate 
Technology Centre and Network services to streamlining Climate Technology Centre and Network operations and looks forward  to the continuation of these approaches;  
18. Takes  note of the acti vities, performance and key messages of the Climate Technology 
Centre and Network in 2020– 2021, including challenges faced and lessons learned;  
19. Welcomes  the efforts of the Climate Technology Centre and Network to be more 
inclusive by implementing its gend er action plan and enhancing  engagement with the 
constituencies of women and gender, youth and indigenous people s organizations ; 
20. Notes with appreciation that the Climate Technology Centre and Network is now the 
largest provider of readiness support for tec hnology under the Green Climate Fund Readiness 
and Preparatory Support Programme and encourages  the Climate Technology Centre and 
Network to continue its collaboration  through the R eadiness and Preparatory Support 
Programme and to extend its engagement thr ough the Project Preparation Facility with the 
Green Climate Fund;  
21. Welcomes with appreciation the establishment of the Climate Technology Centre and 
Network partnership and liaison office in Songdo, Republic of Korea, which will focus its work on, inter alia,  collaborating with the Green Climate Fund and research and development , 
and invites  the Climate Technology Centre and Network to report on experience and lessons  
learned therefrom ; 
22. Welcomes with appreciation the continuing collaboration between the Cli mate 
Technology Centre and Network and the Global Environment Facility;  
 
 5 See https://unfccc.int/ttclear/events/2020/2020_event07 . FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
 57 23. Welcomes  the action of the Climate Technology Centre and Network to engage with 
the private sector in develop ing and implement ing its programme of work, including the 
deliver y of technical assistance and capacity development through small and medium -sized 
enterpri ses and its efforts to enhance engagement with the private sector and N etwork 
members;  
24. Invites  the Climate Technology Centre and Network to continue its efforts to support 
developing countries in preparing and updating technology needs assessments and 
technology action plans, as well as their implementation , upon request;  
25. Also invites  the Climate Technology Centre and Network to continue providing 
support for enhancing the capacity of national designated entities in developing countries to 
enable them to fu lfil their roles;  
26. Encourages  developed country national designated entities to consider how they can 
engage in the efforts of the Climate Technology Centre and Network;  
27. Notes with appreciation the information reported on experience and lessons learned 
with regard to pro bono and in -kind contributions6 and encourages  the Climate Technology 
Centre and Network  to continue its efforts to mobilize such contributions ; 
28. Appreciates the efforts of the Climate Technology Centre to mobilize a diverse rang e 
of resources,7 including from multilateral development banks, private sector channels, 
philanthropic organi zations, Network  members , the United Nations Environment Programme  
and other U nited Nations  agencies, as well as  new contributions to the multi -donor trust fund 
and multi -year commitments that enable the Climate Technology Centre and Network to 
successfully implement its mandates, and encourages  the Climate Technology Centre and 
Network to continue these efforts;  
29. Expresses its gratitude  for the financial contributions provided by Parties to support 
the work of the Climate Technology Centre and Network to date;  
30. Recognizes the challenge of securing sustainable financial resources for the Climate 
Technology Centre and N etwork for 2022 and requests the Climate Technology Centre and 
Network to strengthen its resource mobilization efforts to ensure sustainable funding for 
effectively  implementing  its programme of work;  
31. Encourages the Climate Technology Centre and Network  to participate in events that 
raise the profile and awareness  of the Climate Technology Centre and Network , expand its 
outreach and increase its impact in order to  enhance knowledge -sharing and uptake of climate 
technologies . 
10th plenary meeting  
11 November 2021
 
 6 Pursuant to decision 14/CP.25, para. 22; see also document FCCC/SB/2020/4, annex V .  
 7 Pursuant to decision 14/CP.25, para. 26.   FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
58    Decision 10/CP.26 
  Review of the constitution of the Advisory Board of the 
Climate  Technology Centre and Network  
 The Conference of the Parties , 
 Recalling decision 2/CP.17,  annex VII , regarding the functions of the Advisory Board 
of the Climate Technology Centre and Network,  
 Also recalling decision 14/CP.18,  annex II , regarding the constitution of the Advisory 
Board of the Climate Technology Centre and Network , 
 Pursuant to decision 14/CP.18,  annex II , paragraph 16,  
1. Agrees  to amend the constitution of the Advisory Board of the Climate Technology 
Centre and Network  to that contained in the annex;  
2. Notes that the amendment of the constitution of the Advisory Board should ensure its 
effective functioning.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
 59 Annex  
  Constitution of the Advisory Board of the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network  
1. The Advisory Board of the Climate Technology Centre and Network (CTCN), with 
the aim of achieving fair and balanced representation, shall constitute the following:  
(a) Eighteen government representatives, comprising equal representation of 
Parties included in Annex I to the Convention (Annex I Parties) and Parties not included in 
Annex I to the Convention (non- Annex I Parties) and, for non- Annex I Parties, ensuring 
equitable representation of the United Nations regional groups ; 
(b) The Chair and the Vice- Chair of the Technology Executive Committee  in their 
official capacity as Technology Executive Committee representatives;  
(c) One of the Co- Chairs, or a member designated by the Co- Chairs, of the Green 
Climate Fund Board in their official capacity as a Green Climate Fund representative;  
(d) The Chair or the Vice -Chair of the Ada ptation Committee, or a member 
designated by the Chair and the Vice -Chair, in their  official capacity as an Adaptation 
Committee representative;  
(e) One of the Co- Chairs, or a member designated by the Co- Chairs, of the 
Standing Committee  on Finance in their official capacity as a Standing Committee  on 
Finance representative;  
(f) The Director of the CTCN in their official capacity as the CTCN 
representative;  
(g) Six representatives, with one being selected by each of the following UNFCCC 
observer organization constituencies: environmental, business and industry, research and independent, and youth non -governmental organizations; indigenous peoples organizations; 
and the women and gender constituency, with relevant expertise in technology, finance or business, received by  the host organization of the  Climate Technology Centre , taking into 
account balanced geographical representation.  
2. The Advisory Board will invite representatives of relevant constituted bodies and 
expert observers to attend its meetings on the basis of spe cific items on the agenda, in 
accordance with the modalities and procedures developed by the Advisory Board at its 1
st 
meeting.1 
3. The Director of the CTCN shall be the secretary of the Advisory Board.  
4. Government representatives shall be nominated by their respective groups or 
constituencies and elected by the Conference of the Parties (COP). Groups or  constituencies 
are encouraged to nominate the government representatives to the Advisory Board, with a view to achieving an appropriate balance of expertise relevant to the  development and 
transfer of technologies for adaptation and mitigation , taking into account the need to achieve 
gender balance in accordance with decisions 36/CP.7 and 23/CP.18.  
5. Governme nt representatives  elected to the Advisory Board shall serve for a term of 
two years and shall be eligible to serve a maximum of two consecutive terms of office . The 
following rules shall apply:  
(a) Half of the representatives shall be elected initially for a term of three years 
and half shall be elected for a term of two years;  
(b) Thereafter , the COP shall elect half of the representatives every year for a term 
of two years;  
(c) The representatives shall remain in office until their successors are elected.  
 
 1 See decision 25/CP.19, annex I.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
60  6. If a gover nment representative of the Advisory Board resigns or is otherwise unable 
to complete the assigned term of office or to perform the functions of that office, the Advisory 
Board may decide, bearing in mind the proximity of the next session of the COP, to ap point 
another representative from the same constituency to replace said representative for the remainder of that representative’s mandate, in which case the appointment shall count as one term.  
7. The representatives of the Advisory Board referred to in parag raph 1(b) above shall 
serve in accordance with their term of office.  
8. The representatives of the Advisory Board referred to in paragraph 1(c –e) above shall 
serve in accordance with their ter m of office.  
9. The representatives of the Advisory Board referred to in paragraph 1(g) above shall 
be eligible to serve for a maximum term of office of two years.
2 
10. Decisions of the Advisory Board will be taken by consensus by only the Advisory 
Board representatives referred to i n paragraph 1(a –b) above . These representati ves will 
specify in the modalities and procedures of the Advisory Board how to adopt decisions in the event that all efforts at reaching consensus have been exhausted.  
11. The Advisory Board shall elect annually a Chair and a Vice -Chair from among the 
representatives referred to in paragraph 1(a) above for a term of one year each, with one being from an Annex I Party and the other being from a non- Annex I Party. The positions of Chair 
and Vice- Chair shall alternate annually between a representative of  an Annex I Party and a 
representative of a non -Annex I Party.  
12. If the Chair is temporarily unable to fulfil the obligations of the office, the Vice -Chair 
shall serve as Chair. In the absence of the Chair and the Vice- Chair at a particular meeting, 
any other representatives identified in paragraph 1(a) above designated by the Advisory Board shall temporarily serve as the chair of  that meeting.  
13. If the Chair or the Vice -Chair is unable to complete the term of office, the Advisory 
Board shall elect a replacement to comp lete the term of office, taking into account 
paragraph 6 above.  
14. The meetings of the Advisory Board shall be open to attendance, as observers, by 
Parties, the secretariat and observer organizations, except where otherwise decided by the Advisory Board.  
15. The Climate Technology Centre shall support and facilitate the work of the Advisory 
Board of the CTCN . 
11
th plenary meeting  
12 November 2021
 
 2 See decision 13/CP.24, para. 16.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
 61   Decision 1 1/CP.26 
  Second review of the  Climate Technology Centre and 
Network  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling decisions 1/CP.16, 2/CP.17, 1/CP.18, 14/CP.18, 14/CP.23 and 12/CP.24,  
1. Welcomes  the report on the second independent review of the effective 
implementation of the Climate Technology Centre and Network (hereinafter referred to as 
the second independent review)1 commissioned by the secretariat in response to decision 
2/CP.17, annex VII, paragraph 20, an d decision 14/CP.23, paragraph 10;  
2. Welcomes with appreciation the dialogue to consider the findings of the second 
independent review2 organized by the secretariat;3 
3. Also welcomes with appreciation the contributions and support provided by Parties 
and rel evant organizations for the activities of the Climate Technology Centre and Network 
during the review period;  
4. Notes the key findings of the second independent review regarding the relevance, 
effectiveness, efficiency, impact and sustainability of the servi ces provided by the Climate 
Technology Centre and Network, as contained in the report referred to in paragraph 1 above;4 
5. Also notes the main successes and challenges regarding the effective implementation 
of the Climate Technology Centre and Network, as c ontained in the report referred to in 
paragraph 1 above;5 
6. Further notes  that the contribution  of the Climate Technology Centre and Network to 
transformational change is expected to be sustainable and result in adaptation, mitigation and socioeconomic co- benefits; 
7. Welcomes the new organizational  arrangements  of the Climate Technology Centre at 
the regional level, undertaken with the aim of enhancing support for technical assistance requests;  
8. Also welcomes the management  response of the United Nations Environment 
Programme to the second independent review, as contained in the report referred to in paragraph 1 above;
6 
9. Decides to renew the memorandum of understanding between the Conference of the 
Parties and the United Nations Environment Programme regarding the hosting of the Climate Technology Centre, as contained in annex I to decision 14/CP.18, for a further five -year 
period;  
10. Authorizes the Executive Secretary to sign, on behalf of the Conference of the Parties, 
the memorandum of understanding referred to in paragraph 9 above;  
11. Encourages the United Nations Environment Programme as host of the Climate 
Technology Centre, in collaboration with the United Nations Industrial Development Organization and in consultation with the Advisory Board of the Climate Technology Centre and Network, to implement the recommendations contained in the report referred to in paragraph 1 above when implementing its further activities relevant to the work of the Climate Technology Centre and Network, including those activities relevant to the third programme of wo rk of the Climate Technology Centre and Network;  
 
 1 FCCC/CP/2021/3.  
 2 See https://unfccc.int/ttclear/events/2021/2021_event07 . 
 3 In response to decision 12/CP.24, para. 7 . 
 4 FCCC/CP/2021/3, paras. 14 –60. 
 5 FCCC/CP/2021/3, paras. 61–62. 
 6 FCCC/CP/2021/3, annex VIII.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
62  12. Requests the Climate Technology Centre and Network to include in its joint annual 
report with the Technology Executive Committee for 2022 and in the subsequent reports to 
the Conference of the Parties, thro ugh the subsidiary bodies, information on its plans and 
actions undertaken in response to the recommendations contained in the report referred to in paragraph 1 above;  
13. Notes that the Climate Technology Centre and Network continues to face challenges 
that need attention, including limited and insufficient financial resources and a constrained 
budget for implementing its mandates given its broad scope of services; administrative and communication challenges related to its management structure; lack of resou rces of the 
developing country national designated entities to better engage and fulfil its role; and limited engagement and synergies among the network members;  
14. Invites  the Climate Technology Centre and Network and the Technology Executive 
Committee to ex plore ways to strengthen their collaboration and thereby enhance the 
effectiveness and efficiency of the Technology Mechanism;  
15. Also invites the Climate Technology  Centre and Network to enhance in its provision 
of services the engagement of private sector  Network members with a view to reinforcing its 
position as a climate technology ‘matchmaker’;  
16. Encourages  the Climate Technology Centre and Network to enhance efforts to 
promote active collaboration among national designated entities ; 
17. Acknowledges  the effectiveness of support provided by national designated entities  to 
developing country Parties for requesting technical assistance from the Climate Technology Centre and Network, which led to all the requests received being deemed eligible, and 
encourages  them  to continue to provide such support;  
18. Also encourages  the Climate Technology Centre and Network to enhance its provision 
of support for strengthening the capacity of national designated entities  in developing 
countries with a view to enabling them to fulf il their roles; 
19. Reiterates  that enhanced  and sustainable financial support should be provided to the 
Climate Technology Centre and Network for the full and effective implementation  of its 
mandate;  
20. Encourages the Climate Technology Centre and Network, in c ollaboration with the 
United Nations Environment Programme and in consultation with the Advisory Board, to liaise with the UNFCCC secretariat to further enhance resource mobilization from various sources, including the Financial Mechanism; bilateral, multilateral and private sector channels; philanthropic sources; and financial and in- kind contributions from the host 
organization and participants in the Network;  
21. Invites  the Climate Technology Centre and Network to continue working with the 
operating entitie s of the Financial Mechanism to further strengthen their linkages with the 
aim of scaling up the Climate Technology Centre and Network’ s provision of technical 
support to developing country Parties;  
22. Decides  to align the periodicity of the independent revie w of the effective 
implementation of the Climate Technology Centre and Network with the periodic assessment of the effectiveness and adequacy of the support provided to the Technology Mechanism in supporting the implementation of the Paris Agreement on mat ters relating to technology 
development and transfer
7 by changing the periodicity of the independent review from four 
to five years until the Conference of the Parties reviews the functions of the Climate Technology Centre and Network at its thirty- first session (2026) and decides whether to 
extend its term;
8 
23. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to start considering, at its sixty-
second session (2025), matters relating to the alignment between processes pertaining to the independent review of the Climate Technology Centre and Network and the periodic assessm ent of the Technology Mechanism with a view to recommending a draft decision on 
 
 7 See decision 1/CP.21, para. 69.  
 8 See decision 2/CP.17, annex VII, para. 23.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.1  
 63 this matter for consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties at its thirty -first 
session;  
24. Also requests the secretariat, pursuant to decision 2/CP.17, annex VII,  paragraph 20,  
and subject to the availability of financial resources, to commission the third independent 
review of the effectiveness of the Climate Technology Centre and Network for consideration by the Conference of the Parties at its thirty -first sessi on; 
25. Further requests  the secretariat  to organize a dialogue, in conjunction with the thirty-
first session of the Conference of the Parties, to consider the findings of the third independent review of the effective implementation of the Climate Technology C entre and Network.  
11
th plenary meeting  
12 November 2021  
      
 
GE.22 -03275(E)  
Conference of the Parties  
Report of the Conference of the Parties on its twenty -sixth 
session, held in Glasgow from 31 October to  
13 November 2021  
Addendum  
Part two: Action taken by the Conference of the Parties at its twenty -
sixth session  
Contents  
Decisions adopted by the Conference of the Parties  
Decision  Page 
12/CP.26  Annual technical progress reports of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building  
for 2020 and 2021  ................................ ................................ ................................ ......  2 
13/CP.26  Fifth review of the implementation of the framework for capacity -building in  
countries with economies in transition under the Convention  ................................ ...  3 
14/CP.26  Revised terms of reference of the Consultative Group of Experts  .............................   5 
15/CP.26  Extension of the mandate of the Least Developed Countries Expert Group ..............   8 
16/CP.26  Local Communities and Indigenous Peoples Platform  ................................ ..............   11 
17/CP.26  Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated with Climate  
Change Impacts  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........   13 
18/CP.26  Glasgow work programme on Action for Climate Empowerment  ............................   17 
19/CP.26  Matters relating to the forum on the impact of the implementation of response  
measures  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....................   27 
20/CP.26  Gender and climate change  ................................ ................................ ........................   35 
21/CP.26  Dates and venues of  future sessions ................................ ................................ ...........   38 
22/CP .26 Programme budget for the biennium 2022 –2023  ................................ ......................   40 
23/CP.26  Administrative, financial and institutional matters  ................................ ....................   50 
Resolution  
1/CP.26  Expression of gratitude to the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain  
and Northern Ireland and the people of the city of Glasgow  ................................ .....  53    
United Nations  FCCC /CP/2021/12/Add.2  
  
Distr.: General  
8 March  2022 
 
Original: English  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
2  Decision 1 2/CP.26  
Annual technical progress reports of the Paris Committee on 
Capacity -building for 2020 and 2021  
The Conference of the  Parties ,  
  Recalling decisions 2/CP.17, 1/CP.21, 2/CP.22, 16/CP.22, 16/CP.23, 15/CP.24 and 
8/CP.25,  
1. Welcomes the annual technical progress reports of the Paris Committee on Capacity -
building for 2020 and 20211 and takes note  of the recommendations contained in the 2021 
report ;2 
2. Invites Parties, as appr opriate, the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism, the 
constituted bodies under the Convention, United Nations organizations, observers and other 
stakeholders  to consider the recommendations referred to in paragraph 1 above and to take 
any necessa ry action, as appropriate and in accordance with their mandates;  
3. Acknowledges  progress made by the Paris Committee on Capacity -building in 
implementing its mandate to address gaps and needs, both current and emerging, in 
implemen ting capacity -building in d eveloping countr y Parties  and further enhanc ing 
capacity -building efforts, including with regard to the coherence and coordination  of 
capacity -building activities under the Convention ; 
4. Takes note  of the conclusion of  the implementation of the final activities in the rolling 
workplan of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building for 2017 –2020;3 
5. Also takes note of progress made in the implementation of  the workplan of the Paris 
Committee on Capacity -building for 2021 –20244 on the basis of the priority areas and 
activities contained in the annex to decision 9/CP.25;  
6. Welcomes the work of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building in relation to 
enhancing the coherence and coordination of capacity -building  activities under the 
Convention, including its collaboration with constituted bodies and other actors under the 
Convention ; 
7. Also welcomes  the collaboration of the Paris Committee on Capacity -building with 
Parties and non -Party stakeholders, including thro ugh the PCCB  Network, the informal  
coordination group for capacity -building under the Convention and the Paris Agreement , the 
Durban Forum  on capacity -building , the Capacity -building Hub and social media outreach ; 
8. Takes note of the 2022 focus area of the  Paris Committee on Capacity -building of 
building capacity to facilitate coherent implementation of nationally determined 
contributions in the context of national development plans and sustainable recovery ;5 
9. Notes  that capacity gaps and needs still exist in  developing  countries pertaining to the 
implementation of  the Convention and the Paris Agreement ; 
10. Invites  Parties and relevant institutions, as appropriate, to provide support and 
resources to the Paris Committee on Capacity -building for implementing its workplan for 
2021 –2024 in the light of the aim of the Committee established in decision 1/CP.21.  
10th plenary meeting  
11 Novemb er 2021  
 
 
 1 FCCC/SBI/2020/13 and FCCC/SBI/2021/10.  
 2   FCCC/SBI/2021/10, paras. 72 –81. 
 3 Available at https://unfccc.int/documents/209801 . 
 4 Available at https://unfccc.int/documents/267207 .  
 5  See document FCCC/SBI/2021/10, para. 15.  FCCC/CP/20 21/12/Add.2  
 3 Decision 1 3/CP.26  
Fifth review of the implementation of the framework for 
capacity -building in countries with economies in transition 
under the Convention  
The Conference of t he Parties ,  
  Recalling decisions 3/CP.7, 9/CP.9, 3/CP.10, 2/CP.17, 21/CP.18 and 17/CP.23,  
  Acknowledging  that capacity -building for countries with economies in transition  is 
essential to enabl ing them to implement effectively their commitments under the Convention , 
1. Recognizes  that: 
(a) Significant  progress has been made in building the capacity of countries with 
economies in transition to mitigate and adapt to climate change, and that some recipients of 
assistance have started to transfer their own expertise, knowledge and lessons learned on 
capacity -building to Parties not included in Annex I to the Convention;  
(b) Parties included in Annex I to the Convention and the Global Environment 
Facility, within i ts mandate, have provided adequate resources and assistance for the 
implementation of the framework  for capacity -building in countries with economies in 
transition established under decision 3/CP.7;  
(c) Support was also provided to countries with economies in  transition by 
multilateral development banks and international financial institutions;  
(d) Countries with economies in transition that are currently receiving support, 
notwithstanding the progress made, are in need of further capacity -building, in particular  for 
regular ly updat ing and implement ing their emission reduction targets, for regular ly updat ing 
and implement ing their adaptation strategies , and for  develop ing and implement ing national 
long-term low -emission development strategies consistent ly with their national priorities;  
2. Reaffirms  that the scope of the needs identified in the framework for capacity -building 
in countries with economies in transition established under decision 3/CP.7 and the key 
factors identified in decision 3/CP.10 remain relevant and continue to be the basis for, and 
guide the implementation of, capacity -building activities in countries with economies in 
transition ; 
3. Encourages  the engagement of countries with economies in transition in future 
discussions at the Durban Foru m, as appropriate, to explore potential ways for enhancing 
capacity -building in countries with economies in transition by sharing examples of best 
practice s and lessons learned;  
4. Invites  Parties to enhance reporting  on best practices related to capacity -building in 
their national communications, biennial reports, submissions and other relevant documents 
with a view to further ing learning and broadening the impact of capacity -building activities 
in countries with economies in transition;  
5. Also invites  Parties included in Annex II to the Convention and other Parties in a 
position to do so, the Global Environment Facility, multilateral and bilateral agencies, 
international organizations, multilateral development banks, international financial 
institution s and the private sector or any further arrangements, as appropriate and within their 
mandates, to continue to provide support for capacity -building activities in countries with 
economies in transition;  
6. Further invites  Parties and relevant institutions to  provide information on capacity -
building activities in countries with economies in transition to the secretariat for inclusion in 
the capacity -building portal;1 
 
 1 https://unfccc.int/topi cs/capacity -building/workstreams/capacity -building -portal .  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
4  7. Decides to conclude the fifth review of the implementation of the framework for 
capacity -building in countries with economies in transition  and requests  the Subsidiary Body 
for Implementation, at its sixty -fourth  session  (2026) , to initiate the sixth review  thereof  with 
a view to the Conference of the Parties concluding  it at its thirty -first session (2026) ; 
8. Also r equests the secretariat to prepare a synthesis report on  the implementation of the 
framework for capacity -building in countries with economies in transition to support the sixth 
review thereof for consideration by the Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its sixty -
fourth session . 
10th plenary meeting  
11 Novemb er 2021FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
 5 Decision 14/CP.26  
Revised terms of reference of the Consultative Group of 
Experts  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  Article 4, paragraphs 1, 3 and 7, and Article 12, paragraphs 1, 4, 5 and 7, of 
the Convention,  
Also recalling  Article 13, paragraphs 1, 14 and 15, of the Paris Agreement,  
Further recalling  decisions 8/CP.5, 3/CP.8, 17/CP.8, 5/CP.15, 1/CP.16, 2/CP .17, 
14/CP.17, 17/CP.18, 18/CP.18, 19/CP.19, 20/CP.19, 1/CP.21, 20/CP.22 and 11/CP.24,  
Recalling  decision 18/CMA.1, paragraphs  12(c) and 15,  
Recognizing  that the Consultative Group of Experts plays an important role in 
facilitating the provision of techni cal advice and support to developing country Parties and 
in facilitating improved reporting over time, as applicable, in relation to the preparation and 
submission of national communications, biennial update reports and biennial transparency 
reports, as re levant,  
Noting  the 2020 and 2021 progress reports1 of the Consultative Group of Experts, 
which identified facilitating the submission of biennial update reports as a priority in its 
workplans for 2020 and 2021,  
1. Adopts , pursuant to  decision 11/CP.24, parag raph 5,  the revised terms of reference  of 
the Consultative Group of Experts contained in the annex;   
2. Decides  that the representative of Parties referred to in decision 11/CP.24, 
paragraph  3, shall participate in the work of the Consultative Group of Expert s in the same 
capacity as the other members of the Consultative Group of Experts, noting that this does not 
set a precedent for the consideration of the composition of other bodies under the UNFCCC ; 
3. Also decides to include in the composition of the Consult ative Group of Experts,  in 
addition to  current members from Parties not included in Annex I to the Convention, one 
additional member from the least developed countries and one additional member from small 
island developing States, noting that this does not  set a precedent for the consideration of the 
composition of other bodies under the UNFCCC ; 
4. Requests the Subsidiary Body for Implementation, at its sixty -second session (2025), 
to initiate consideration of the extension of the term of the Consultative Grou p of Experts 
after 2026, the composition of the Consultative Group of Experts and its terms of reference, 
taking into account the needs of developing countries for capacity -building in relation to 
reporting under the UNFCCC and the Paris Agreement, with a view to recommending a draft 
decision on these matters for consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties at 
its thirtieth session (2025);  
5. Also requests the secretariat to facilitate the work of the Consultative Group of Experts 
pursuant to de cision 11/CP.24 and this decision;  
6. Takes note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraph 5 above;  
7. Requests that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undert aken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
 
 1 FCCC/SBI/2020/15, FCCC/SBI/2020/16, FCCC/TP/2020/1, FCCC/SBI/2021/12, FCCC/SBI/2021/14 
and FCCC/TP/2021/2.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
6  Annex  
Revised terms of reference of the Consultative Group of 
Experts  
1. The objective of the Consultative Group of Experts shall be to provide technical 
advice and support to developing country Parties for enhancing their institutional and 
technical capacity to prepare and submit national communications, biennial update report s, 
national greenhouse gas inventories and biennial transparency reports, as applicable, with a 
view to facilitating improvements in their reporting over time. Taking into account decisions 
1/CP.21, paragraph 98, 1/CP.24, paragraphs 38 and 43(a –b), and 18/ CMA.1, paragraphs 3 –
4, the Consultative Group of Experts shall ensure that it prioritizes its work in a manner that 
addresses the challenges, constraints and needs of developing country Parties.  
2. In fulfilling its mandate1 to support implementation of the  existing measurement, 
reporting and verification arrangements under the Convention by Parties not included in 
Annex I to the Convention (non -Annex I Parties), the Consultative Group of Experts shall:   
(a) Provide, taking into account decision 1/CP.24, paragra phs 38 and 43(a –b), 
technical assistance and support to non -Annex I Parties to facilitate the process of and the 
preparation of their national communications2 and biennial update reports in accordance with 
the “Guidelines for the preparation of national c ommunications from Parties not included in 
Annex I to the Convention”, contained in the annex to decision 17/CP.8, and the “UNFCCC 
biennial update reporting guidelines for Parties not included in Annex I to the Convention”, 
contained in annex III to decisi on 2/CP.17;  
(b) Provide recommendations, as appropriate, on elements to be considered in a 
future revision of the “Guidelines for the preparation of national communications from 
Parties not included in Annex I to the Convention”, taking into account the experi ence of 
non-Annex I Parties in preparing their national communications;  
(c) Provide technical advice and support to Parties, upon request, on the provision 
of the information to be reported on steps taken to integrate climate change considerations 
into releva nt social, economic and environmental policies and actions in accordance with 
Article 4, paragraph 1(f), of the Convention;  
(d) Provide guidance and periodic advice to the secretariat to assist it in fulfilling 
the selection criteria for the composition of tea ms of technical experts, in accordance with 
decision 20/CP.19, annex, paragraphs 3 –5, taking into account the reports provided by the 
secretariat in this regard on a semi -annual basis;  
(e) Continue updating and organizing, as needed, with the assistance of the  
secretariat, the training programmes for nominated technical experts for the technical 
analysis of biennial update reports, on the basis of the most up -to-date training materials of 
the Consultative Group of Experts, with a view to improving the technical  analysis, taking 
into account the experience of non -Annex I Parties, in particular the least developed countries 
and small island developing States, in preparing their biennial update reports, and increasing 
the representation of the least developed count ries and small island developing States in 
teams of technical experts.  
3. In fulfilling its mandate to support implementation of the enhanced transparency 
framework under Article 13 of the Paris Agreement, the Consultative Group of Experts shall:  
(a) Facilitate t he provision of technical advice and support to developing country 
Parties, as applicable, including for the preparation and submission of their biennial 
 
 1 Decision 11/CP.24.  
 2 In accordance with decision 1/CP.24, para. 43(a), Parties may submit their national communication 
and biennial transparency report as a single report in accordance with the modalities, procedures and 
guidelines contained  in the annex to decision 18/CMA.1 for information also covered by the  national 
commun ication reporting guidelines  contained in, as applicable, decisions 4/CP.5 and 17/CP.8.   FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
 7 transparency reports, and facilitate improved reporting over time in accordance with the 
modalities, p rocedures and guidelines for the transparency framework for action and support 
referred to in Article 13 of the Paris Agreement;3 
(b) Provide technical advice to the secretariat on the implementation of the training 
for technical expert review teams referred to in decision 18/CMA.1, paragraph 12(c).  
4. The Consultative Group of Experts, in providing technical advice and support, should, 
to the extent possible:  
(a) Give special consideration to the least developed countries and small island 
developing States, includin g in the context of the need to improve the ability of experts to 
participate in technical expert reviews;  
(b) Identify and take into account, as appropriate, lessons learned and best 
practices, and the challenges, constraints and needs of developing country P arties in 
preparing, as appropriate, the reports referred to in paragraph 1 above, including in relation 
to financial and other support available, as well as the areas for improvement and capacity -
building needs identified in the technical analyses of bien nial update reports and the technical 
expert review of biennial transparency reports;  
(c) Seek to promote sectoral, gender and geographical balance among experts 
from developing countries eligible to participate in technical expert reviews;  
(d) Facilitate the deve lopment and long -term sustainability of the processes for 
preparing, as appropriate and relevant, the reports referred to in paragraph 1 above, including 
by providing technical advice and support on elaborating appropriate institutional 
arrangements and es tablishing and maintaining national technical teams;  
(e) Provide, upon request, information on existing activities and programmes, 
including bilateral, regional and multilateral sources of financial and technical assistance, to 
facilitate and support the prepa ration, as appropriate, of the reports referred to in paragraph  1 
above.  
5. The Consultative Group of Experts should collaborate, to the extent possible, with 
other expert groups and constituted bodies under the Convention and the Paris Agreement as 
well as w ith relevant multilateral programmes and organizations, while avoiding duplication 
of work.  
6. The Consultative Group of Experts shall develop, at its first meeting in 2022, a work 
programme for 2022 –2026.  
7. The Consultative Group of Experts shall forward recom mendations on the matters 
referred to in paragraphs 2 –3 above for consideration by the Subsidiary Body for 
Implementation, as appropriate.  
12th plenary meeting  
13 Novemb er 2021
 
 3 Decision 18/CMA.1, annex.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
8  Decision 15/CP.26  
Extension of the mandate of the Least Developed Countries 
Expert Group  
The Conference of the  Parties ,  
Recalling  decisions 5/CP.7, 29/CP.7, 7/CP.9, 4/CP.10, 4/CP.11, 8/CP.13, 6/CP.16, 
5/CP.17, 12/CP.18, 3/CP.20,  1/CP.21, 19/CP.21, 16/CP.24, 7/CP.25, 11/CMA.1 and 
19/CMA.1,  
Recognizing Article 4, paragraph 9, of the Convention and the preamble to the Paris 
Agreement o n Parties to it taking full account of the specific needs and special situations of 
the least developed countries in their actions with regard to funding and transfer of 
technology,  
Noting the importance of adaptation for the least developed countries and the role of 
national adaptation plans in addressing national, subnational, sectoral and local, as well as 
regional and transboundary issues,  
Having considered  the reports on the 37th, 38th, 39th and 40th meetings of the Least 
Developed Countries Expert Group, the report on the stocktaking meeting on the work of the 
Group, the views of Parties on the work of the Group, and the synthesis report on the progress, 
need for continuation and terms of reference o f the Group and the recommendations 
contained therein,1 
Having also considered the views shared by Parties during official events on this 
matter,2 
Recognizing the value of the Least Developed Countries Expert Group in providing 
support for addressing the priority needs of the least developed countries,  
Expressing its special appreciation  to the Least Developed Countries Expert Group 
on its twentieth anniversary,  
Expressing  its appreciation  to the Least Developed Countries Expert Group  for it s 
successful work in implementing its work programme for 2015 –2021 and in supporting the 
preparation and implementation of national adaptation programmes of action, other elements 
of the least developed countries work programme, and the process to formulat e and 
implement national adaptation plans,  
Recognizing  the experience of the Least Developed Countries Expert Group in 
successfully supporting the formulation and implementation of national adaptation 
programmes of action in the least developed countries,  
Also recognizing  the value of information provided by the Least Developed Countries 
Expert Group, in collaboration with other constituted bodies under the Convention and the 
Paris Agreement, to the least developed countries, and of the engagement of a wide  range of 
organizations, including through the Open NAP initiative and the national adaptation plan 
technical working group, in supporting the least developed countries,  
Noting the importance of the Least Developed Countries Expert Group as a body that 
provides high -quality information on adaptation for the least developed countries,  
 
 1 FCCC/SBI/2020/6, FCCC/SBI/2020/7, FCCC/SBI/2020/8, FCCC/SBI/2020/14, FCCC/SBI/2021/6 
and FCCC/SBI/2021/13 . 
 2 The event on e nhancing su pport to the least developed countries : insights from a recent stocktaking 
meeting of the work of the Least Developed Countries Expert Group  (for information, see 
https://unfccc.int/node/227958 ); the technical  dialogue with Parties and observers held by the Chair of 
the Subsidiary Body for Implementation on experience, good practices and lessons learned from work  
of the Least Developed Countries Expert Group  to inform the review of the Group  (for information, 
see https://unfccc.int/node/257183 ); and the information event on the work of the Group  in supporting 
the least developed countries  on adaptation (for information, see 
https://unfccc.int/event/info_event_LEG_SB2021 ). FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
 9 Recognizing  that the least developed countries continue to require support for, inter 
alia, undertaking the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans, applyi ng 
regional approaches to adaptation, engaging with the Green Climate Fund and implementing 
the least developed countries work programme,  
Noting the need to continue to support the least developed countries in achieving their 
vision of having produced thei r first national adaptation plan by the end of 2020 or soon 
thereafter,  
1. Decides to extend the mandate of the Least Developed Countries Expert Group 
(hereinafter referred to as the Group) under its current terms of reference;3 
2. Also decides that the next re view of the mandate of the Group will take place at its 
thirty -sixth session (2031);  
3. Further decides to take stock of the work of the Group in order to review its progress 
and terms of reference at its thirty -first session (2026), the midway point before t he review 
referred to in paragraph 2 above, as a way to reflect on the evolving needs of the least 
developed countries;  
4. Invites the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement to review the progress of the Group a s it relates to implementation of the Paris 
Agreement at its eighth session (2026)  as part of the stocktake referred to in paragraph 3 
above;  
5. Decides to outline at its twenty -ninth session (November 2024) the steps for the 
stocktake referred to in paragraphs 3 –4 above;  
6. Welcomes  the efforts of the Group in enhancing the accessibility and transparency of 
its meetings and information and requests  it to continue its efforts,  building on the experience 
of other constituted bodies, while taking into account  its nature as a technical e xpert group, 
and to provide information on these efforts in its reports;  
7. Invites  Parties and relevant organizations to continue to provide resources for 
supporting implementation of the Group’s work programme;  
8. Requests the Group to continue to provide tech nical guidance and support to the least 
developed countries for advancing the formulation and implementation of national adaptation 
plans, including in relation to the work on improving their access to funding under the Green 
Climate Fund, to build capacit y to measure adaptation outcomes, and to enhance linkages 
among national adaptation plans, national and subnational development plans and strategies, 
the Sustainable Development Goals and relevant frameworks;  
9. Invites  the Group to consider under its workpla n the possibility of creating, as needed, 
thematic working groups to expand its technical support in specific areas, building on the 
experience and success of its national adaptation plan technical working group  and taking 
into account the ongoing workload  of the Group and its available resources;  
10. Also i nvites the Group, in the context of its outreach activities, to share information 
on relevant sources of finance for adaptation, including sources other than the UNFCCC 
Financial Mechanism;   
11. Requests the Gr oup to continue to support the least developed countries in 
understanding the modalities for and ways  of accessing relevant sources of financing, 
capacity -building and technology transfer for adaptation in accordance with the Group’s 
mandate;  
12. Also requests  the Group, in collaboration with relevant constituted bodies, to assist 
the least developed countries in addressing adaptation -related provisions of the Convention 
and the Paris Agreement, including the submission and updating of adaptation 
communications  in accordance with decision 9/CMA.1;  
 
 3 Decisions 29/CP.7, 7/CP.9, 4/CP.11, 8/CP.13, 6/CP.16, 5/CP.17, 12/CP.18, 3/CP.20, 19/CP.21, 
8/CP.24, 16/CP.24 and 7/CP.25.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
10  13. Further requests the Group to continue to collaborate with the Standing Committee 
on Finance on matters relating to access to the Green Climate Fund and other funds under 
the Financial Mechanism by the least developed  countries for funding the process to 
formulate and implement national adaptation plans;  
14. Requests  the Group to continue to collaborate with the Adaptation Committee and 
other constituted bodies working on adaptation, as well as on work under the Nairobi wo rk 
programme on impacts, vulnerability and adaptation to climate change, in providing support 
to the least developed countries for the process to formulate and implement national 
adaptation plans and to include information thereon in its reports to the Sub sidiary Body for 
Implementation;  
15. Encourages  the Group to prioritize elements of its mandate on the basis of the needs 
of the least developed countries and the availability of resources;  
16. Recognizes the positive engagement of a broad range of organizations, networks and 
experts in supporting the process to formulate and implement national adaptation plans 
through the national adaptation plan technical working group;  
17. Requests  the Group to mobilize more partners  to address specific priority needs  of the 
least developed countries, as appropriate;  
18. Decides  to adjust the composition of the Group to be as follows:  
(a) Five members from African States that are least developed countries;  
(b) Two members from Asia -Pacific States that are least developed countrie s; 
(c) Two members from small island developing States that are least developed 
countries;  
(d) Four members from the least developed country Parties;  
(e) Four members from developed country Parties;  
19. Requests the Group to develop, taking into account its current pract ices and its terms 
of reference, its draft rules of procedure, for consideration and adoption by the Conference 
of Parties at its twenty -seventh session (November 2022) and the Conference of the Parties 
serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Ag reement at its fourth session (November 
2022);  
20. Also requests the Group to include in its draft rules of procedure provisions on, inter 
alia, the nomination, term limits and rotation of its members;  
21. Encourages Parties, when nominating members to the Group, to take into account, 
inter alia, gender balance ; youth engagement ; experience in climate finance ; and expertise in 
project design and implementation, indigenous and traditional knowledge, and education . 
10th plenary meeting  
11 Novemb er 2021FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
 11 Decision 16/CP.26  
Local Communities and Indigenous Peoples Platform  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling  decisions 1/CP.21 and 2/CP.24,  
Also recalling  decision 2/CP.23, in particular paragraph 8, in which it recommended 
that the processes under the Local Communities and Indigenous Peoples Platform, including 
its operationalization, take into account, inter alia, the interests and views of local 
communities and indigenous peoples as well as the following principles proposed by 
indigenous peoples organizations: full and effective participation of indigenous peoples; 
equal status of indigenous peoples and Parti es, including in leadership roles; self -selection of 
representatives of indigenous peoples in accordance with their own procedures; and adequate 
funding from the secretariat and voluntary contributions to enable the functions of the 
Platform,  
Acknowledging  that Parties should, when taking action to address climate change, 
respect, promote and consider their respective obligations on human rights, the right to health, 
the rights of indigenous peoples, local communities, migrants, children, persons with 
disab ilities and people in vulnerable situations and the right to development, as well as gender 
equality, empowerment of women and intergenerational equity,  
Noting  the importance of ensuring the integrity of all ecosystems, including oceans, 
and the protection  of biodiversity, recognized by some cultures as Mother Earth, and the 
importance for some of the concept of ‘climate justice’ when taking action to address climate 
change,  
Recognizing  the role of local communities and indigenous peoples in relation to th e 
stewardship of and living in harmony with nature,  
Also recognizing  the important role of the Local Communities and Indigenous Peoples 
Platform in bringing together Parties and indigenous peoples and local communities to work 
towards achieving the object ives of the Convention and the Paris Agreement,  
Recalling  decision 2/CP.24, paragraph 27, in which it decided to adopt, at its session 
in November 2021, a decision on the outcome of the review of the Facilitative Working 
Group  of the Local Communities and  Indigenous Peoples Platform by the Subsidiary Body 
for Scientific and Technological Advice,  
1. Welcomes  the report on the 5th meeting of the Facilitative  Working Group of the Local 
Communities and Indigenous Peoples Platform ;1 
2. Invites relevant bodies under the Convention  to take into account the 
recommendations of the Facilitative Working Group to the Subsidiary Body for Scientific 
and Technological Advice  on the engagement and input of indigenous peoples and local 
communities across th e UNFCCC process;2  
3. Welcomes  the progress in implementing the three functions of the Local Communities 
and Indigenous Peoples Platform, including implementation  of the initial two -year workplan;  
4. Recognizes  the role of the Facilitative Working Group in fostering full and effective 
participation of indigenous peoples and local communities  in achieving the objective of the 
Paris Agreement;  
5. Decides to continue the mandate of the Facilitative  Working Group;  
 
 1 FCCC/SBSTA/2021/1 .  
 2 FCCC/SBSTA/2021/1, annex V.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
12  6. Welcomes  the second three -year workplan of the Local Communities  and Indigenous 
Peoples Platform for 2022 –2024;3, 4 
7. Recommends  that the activities under the second three -year workplan facilitate 
exchange of experience between indigenous peoples and local communities  and Parties of 
approaches to managing all ecosystems, which are key to achieving the objectives of the 
Convention a nd the Paris Agreement, in order to enhance national climate policy, including 
nationally determined contributions;  
8. Requests , in the context of implementation of the second three -year workplan, the 
Facilitative Working Group to take into account additiona l inputs from Parties via 
submissions through the Local Communities and Indigenous Peoples Platform web portal, as 
appropriate;  
9. Recognizes  that the second three -year workplan facilitates  continued collaboration 
among Parties and indigenous peoples and loca l communities on addressing and responding 
to climate change;   
10. Invites  Parties and stakeholders to enhance engagement of indigenous peoples and 
representatives of local communities in diverse and innovative  ways in addressing and 
responding to climate chan ge;  
11. Requests  the Facilitative Working Group to report on its outcomes, including a draft 
third three -year workplan of the Local Communities and Indigenous Peoples Platform, and 
on the activities under the Platform for consideration by the Conference of th e Parties at its 
twenty -ninth session (November 2024) through the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and 
Technological Advice at its sixtieth session (June 2024);   
12. Decides that the next review of the Facilitative Working Group will be held in 2024, 
including c onsideration of the request in decision 2/CP.24, paragraph 4, with a view to the 
Conference of the Parties adopting a decision on the review at its twenty -ninth session;  
13. Requests the Facilitative Working Group to invite Parties, indigenous peoples and 
local communities and other stakeholders to make submissions by the 10th meeting of the 
Facilitative Working Group (November –December 2023) on the review referred to in 
paragraph 12 above;  
14. Notes  with appreciation  the support provided by Canada, Finland, German y, New 
Zealand, the Russian Federation and Sweden for implementing the functions of the Local 
Communities and Indigenous Peoples Platform, including as part of the initial two -year 
workplan;  
15. Requests  the secretariat to continue to support and facilitate  the work of the 
Facilitative Working Group;  
16. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in this decision;  
17. Invites  interested Parties and organizations to provide  financial support for 
implementation of the functions of the Local Communities and Indigenous Peoples Platform;  
18. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
10th plenary meeting  
11 Novemb er 2021
 
 3 FCCC/SBSTA/2021/1, annex IV.  
 4 The workplan  should not be read as creat ing new rights or obligations under international law .  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
 13 Decision 1 7/CP.26  
Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage 
associated with Climate Change Impacts  
The Conference of the Parties , 
1. Endorses decision 19/CMA.3, on  the Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and 
Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts  and the reports1 of its Executive 
Committee, which provides as follows:  
“1. Welcomes  the reports of the Executive Committee of the Warsaw International 
Mechanism fo r Loss and Damage associated with Climate Change Impacts for 2020 and 
2021,2 including the recommendations contained therein ; 
“2. Also welcomes the continued progress of the Executive Committee in 
implementing its five -year rolling workplan and that of its ex pert groups in implementing 
their plans of action, including in response to the relevant outcomes of the 2019 review 
of the Warsaw International Mechanism, despite the extraordinary challenges due to the 
coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic;  
“3. Further welcomes : 
(a) The adoption by the Executive Committee of the plans of action of its 
expert groups on non -economic losses, slow onset events, and action and support, and the 
continued progress of implementation of the plans of action of the task force on 
displacement an d the technical expert group on comprehensive risk management;  
(b) The decision of the Executive Committee to update its five -year rolling 
workplan in 2022;  
(c) The provision of input to the Standing Committee on Finance relating to 
the draft guidance for the oper ating entities of the Financial Mechanism;  
(d) The progress of the Executive Committee, further to decision 19/CMA.1, 
in preparing its contribution for the technical assessment component of the global 
stocktake;  
“4. Encourages  the Executive C ommittee to:  
(a) Include in its contribution referred to in paragraph 3(d) above, to the extent 
possible, information on challenges, opportunities, best practices and lessons learned in 
implementing the functions of the Warsaw International Mechanism as well as on 
activiti es and products relevant to the loss and damage considerations under the global 
stocktake, including in the context of decision 19/CMA.1, paragraphs 6(b)(ii) and 36(e);  
(b) Consider including in the agendas for its regular meetings a standing item 
on how the l atest climate science can inform policymaking;  
“5. Expresses appreciation  to: 
(a) Organizations and other stakeholders that contributed to the success of the 
work undertaken and to the constituted bodies that collaborated with the Executive 
Committee and its exper t groups in 2020 –2021;  
(b) Organizations that have submitted information pursuant to decision 
2/CMA.2, paragraph 44;  
 
 1 FCCC/SB/2020/3 and FCCC/SB/2021/4 and Add.1 –2. 
 2 As footnote 1 above.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
14  “6. Invites  organizations, bodies, networks and experts to include the following when 
reporting on the technical assistance provided to developing countries3 with the aim of 
enhancing the information  captured in the reports of the Executive Committee:  
(a) The type of technical assistance provided;  
(b) The developing countries to which technical assistance was provided and 
when;  
(c) The involvement of and collaboration among stakeholders at the local, 
subnational, national, regional and international level, as applicable;  
(d) Challenges experienced in providing  technical assistance;  
(e) The ways in which countries may access the technical assistance available;  
“7. Encourages , noting the breadth of topics addressed in the strategic workstreams4 
of the Executive Committee, a broad range of organizations, bodies, networks  and experts 
from all regions, working at the local, subnational, national, regional and international 
level, including those in developing countries and those that are represented in the expert 
groups of the Executive Committee, to engage in the Santiago network for averting, 
minimizing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate 
change while avoiding duplication of their ongoing efforts;  
“8. Acknowledges that the entities referred to in paragraph 7 above, particularly those 
that are based in developing countries, may need support, including financial support, in 
providing technical assistance;  
“9. Decides that the Santiago network is to have the following functions:  
(a) Contributing to the effective implementation of the functions5 of the 
Warsaw International Mechanism, in line with the provisions in paragraph 7 of decision 
2/CP.19 and Article 8 of the Paris Agreement, by catalysing the technical assistance of 
organizations, bodies, networks and experts;  
(b) Catalysing demand -driven technical assistance , including of relevant 
organizations, bodies, networks and experts, for the implementation of relevant 
approaches to averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage in developing 
countries that are particularly vulnerable t o the adverse effects of climate change by 
assisting in:  
(i) Identifying, prioritizing and communicating technical assistance needs and 
priorities;  
(ii) Identifying types of relevant technical assistance;  
(iii) Actively connecting those seeking technical assistance with  best suited 
organizations, bodies, networks and experts;  
(iv) Accessing technical assistance available , including from such 
organizations, bodies, networks and experts;  
(c) Facilitating the consideration of a wide range of topics relevant to averting, 
minimizing a nd addressing loss and damage approaches, including but not limited to 
current and future impacts, priorities, and actions related to averting, minimizing and 
addressing loss and damage pursuant to decisions 3/CP.18 and 2/CP.19, the areas referred 
to in Ar ticle 8, paragraph 4, of the Paris Agreement and the strategic workstreams of the 
five-year rolling workplan of the Executive Committee;  
(d) Facilitating and catalysing collaboration, coordination, coherence and 
synergies to accelerate action by organizations,  bodies, networks and experts, across 
communities of practices, and for them to deliver effective and efficient technical 
assistance to developing countries;  
 
 3 As per decision 2/ CMA.2, para. 44.  
 4 As contained in the annex to document FCCC/SB/2017 /1/Add.1 . 
 5 Decision 2/CP.19, para. 5.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
 15 (e) Facilitating the development, provision  and dissemination of, and access 
to, knowledge and informa tion on averting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage, 
including comprehensive risk management approaches, at the regional, national and local 
level;  
(f) Facilitating, through  catalysing technical assistance of organizations, 
bodies, networks and expert s, access to action and support (finance, technology and 
capacity -building) , under and outside the Convention and the Paris Agreement, relevant 
to averting, minimi zing and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse 
effects of climate change, in cluding urgent and timely responses to the impacts of climate 
change;  
“10. Also decides  to further develop the  institutional arrangements of the Santiago 
network by:  
(a) Inviting  Parties and relevant organizations to submit via the submission 
portal6 by 15 March 2 022 their views on the following aspects of the Santiago network:  
(i) Operational modalities;  
(ii) Structure;  
(iii) The role of the Executive Committee and its expert groups, task force and 
technical expert group;  
(iv) The role of loss and damage contact points and other relevant stakeholders 
at the subnational, national and regional level;  
(v) Possible elements for the terms of reference of a potential convening or 
coordinating body that may provide secretarial services to facilitate work under 
the Santiago network;  
(b) Requesti ng the secretariat to organize a technical workshop7 prior to the  
fifty-sixth sessions of the subsidiary bodies  (June 2022) , under the guidance of the Chairs 
of those bodies, with inputs from the Executive Committee and the participation of Parties 
and relevant organizations, bodies, networks and experts, to elaborate on the submissions 
referred to in paragraph 10(a) above;  
(c) Requesting the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice 
and the Subsidiary Body for Implementation, at their fifty -sixth sessions, to consider the 
submissions referred to in paragraph 10(a) above and the discussions at the technical 
workshop referred to in paragraph 10(b) above with a view to providing recommendations 
for consideration and adoption by the governing body at its next session or the governing 
bodies at their next session s; 
“11. Requests  the secretariat to continue providing support for developing countries 
that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change that may seek or 
wish to benefit f rom the technical assistance  available from organizations, bodies, 
networks and experts under the Santiago network , without prejudice to the outcomes of 
the consideration by the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice and 
the Subsidiary Bod y for Implementation of matters relating to the network;  
“12. Encourages , recognizing the urgent need for scaling-up action and support, as 
appropriate, including finance, technology and capacity -building, for the implementation 
of relevant approaches8 to aver ting, minimizing and addressing loss and damage in 
developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate 
change, the Executive Committee , on the basis of its recommendation s, to: 
(a) Continue engaging and strengthening its dia logue with the Standing 
Committee on Finance,  including by providing input to the Standing Committee on 
Finance when, in accordance with its mandate, it provides information, recommendations 
 
 6 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx . 
 7 With the workshop to be held in a hybrid in -person and virtual format to encourage broad 
participation.  
 8 Approaches relevant to, inter alia, slow onset events, non -economic losses and human mobility.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
16  and draft guidance relating to the operating entities of the Fina ncial Mechanism, as 
appropriate;  
(b) Commence, continue and/or explore potential ways to enhance, as 
appropriate, collaboration with the operating entities of the Financial Mechanism to 
inform the work of the Executive Committee and its expert group on action and support;  
“13. Notes that considerations related  to the governance  of the Warsaw International 
Mechanism  will continue at its fourth session (November 2022) ;9 
“14. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be 
undertaken by the secre tariat referred to in this decision;  
“15. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject  to the availability of financial resources. ”;  
2. Notes that considerations related to the governance of the Warsaw International  
Mechanism will continue at its twenty -seventh session (November 2022).10 
12th plenary meeting  
13 Novemb er 2021
 
 9 It is noted that discussions on the governance of the Warsaw International Mechanism  did not 
produce an outcome; this is without prejudice to further consideration of this matter.   
 10 As footnote 9 above .  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
 17 Decision 18/CP.26  
Glasgow work programme on Action for Climate 
Empowerment  
The Conference of the Parties and the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement , 
Recalling Articles 4 and 6 of the Convent ion and Article 12 of the Paris Agreement,  
Also recalling decisions 15/CP.18, 19/CP.20, 17/CP.22, 15/CP.25 and 17/CMA.1,  
Further recalling decisions 17/CP.22 and 17/CMA.1, in which it was decided that 
efforts related to implementing Article 6 of the Convention and Article 12 of the Paris 
Agreement should be referred to as Action for Climate Empowerment,  
Reaffirming  the importance of all six elements of Action for Climate Empowerment 
– education, training, public awareness, public participation, public  access to information and 
international cooperation on climate change – to achieving the objective of the Convention 
and the purpose and goals of the Paris Agreement,  
Recognizing  that Action for Climate Empowerment plays a key role in promoting the 
change s in lifestyles, attitudes and behaviours needed to foster low -emission, climate -
resilient and sustainable development,  
Reaffirming the key role that a broad range of stakeholders, such as national, regional 
and local governments, educational and cultural institutions, museums, the private sector, 
intergovernmental organizations, non -governmental organizations, international 
organizations, decision makers, scientists, the media, teachers, youth, women and indigenous 
peoples, play in ensuring Action for Clim ate Empowerment,  
Acknowledging the importance of linkages between activities undertaken to support 
Action for Climate Empowerment and other relevant international arrangements, including 
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and Education for Sustain able Development 
for 2030, as well as regional agreements,  
Noting with appreciation  the contributions of Parties and observers, including the 
members of the United Nations Alliance on Climate Change Education, Training and Public 
Awareness, to supporting A ction for Climate Empowerment work undertaken to date,  
Recognizing the importance of taking a long -term, strategic and country -driven 
approach to Action for Climate Empowerment at the local, national, regional and 
international level, including strengtheni ng support for local, national and regional 
institutional and sectoral expertise and capacity for its implementation,  
Acknowledging the growing interest and engagement of youth in climate action and 
the critical role of youth as agents of change and callin g for  further enhancement of youth 
participation in climate change processes and in unleashing the potential of Action for 
Climate Empowerment,  
Recognizing that ensuring the availability of and access to sufficient financial 
resources and technical support  for adequately implementing Action for Climate 
Empowerment continues to be a challenge for all Parties, but particularly for developing 
country Parties,  
Having completed  the review of the Doha work programme on Article 6 of the 
Convention,  
1. Note  with appre ciation the relevant submissions from Parties and relevant 
organizations1 and the relevant reports prepared by the secretariat;2 
 
 1 As per decision 15/CP.25, paras. 2 –4. 
 2 FCCC/SBI/2020/9, FCCC/SBI/2020/INF.4 and FCCC/SBI/2021/1.  FCCC/CP/2021/12 /Add.2  
18  2. Acknowledge   that the Doha work programme on Article 6 of the Convention provided 
good guidance for action on implementing the six elements of Action for Climate 
Empowerment;  
3. Recognize the importance of enhancing the implementation of Action for Climate 
Empowerment ac ross all relevant areas of implementation of the Convention and the Paris 
Agreement;  
4. Adopt  the 10 -year Glasgow work programme on Action for Climate Empowerment, 
contained in the annex, taking into account the elements identified as effective in supporting 
implementation as well as gaps, needs and opportunities for improvement;  
5. Invite  Parties and relevant non -Party stakeholders to engage in and support 
implementation of the Glasgow work programme while maintaining a country -driven 
approach;  
6. Also invite  multi lateral and bilateral institutions and organizations, including the 
operating entities of the Financial Mechanism, as appropriate, to provide financial support 
for activities related to implementing Action for Climate Empowerment;  
7. Encourage  Parties to stre ngthen the integration of Action for Climate Empowerment 
into the development and implementation of national climate policies, plans, strategies and 
action, including by developing and implementing a national strategy that covers all six 
elements of Action  for Climate Empowerment and facilitates broad cross -sectoral 
coordination and collaboration;  
8. Also encourage Parties to continue designating, assigning responsibilities to, and 
providing support, including technical and financial support, and access to inf ormation and 
materials to national Action for Climate Empowerment focal points;  
9. Further encourage  intergovernmental and non -governmental organizations in a 
position to do so to provide technical or financial support for Action for Climate 
Empowerment activ ities;  
10. Request  the secretariat to promote partnerships with other organizations, the private 
sector and donors in order to support implementation of the Glasgow work programme;  
11. Also request the Subsidiary Body for Implementation to:  
(a) Facilitate implementati on of the Glasgow work programme under the guidance 
of its Chair, subject to the availability of financial resources;  
(b) Hold an annual in -session Action for Climate Empowerment dialogue at its 
first regular session of each year with the participation of Parties, representatives of relevant 
constituted bodies, and relevant experts, practitioners and stakeholders that focuses on the 
progress of implementation of the Glasgow work programme and on its four priority areas: 
policy coherence; co ordinated action; tools and support; and monitoring, evaluation and 
reporting;  
(c) Focus the first in -session dialogue, to be held at its fifty -sixth session (June 
2022), on the engagement of children and youth in implementation of the four priority areas 
of the Glasgow work programme referred to in paragraph 11(b) above;  
(d) Consider, at its second regular session of each year, the annual summary report 
to be prepared by the secretariat on progress in implementing activities under the Glasgow 
work programme (see p ara. 12(a) below);  
(e) Undertake the development of an action plan at its fifty -sixth session focusing 
on immediate action through short -term, clear and time -bound activities, guided by the 
priority areas set out in the Glasgow work programme, with a view to r ecommending a draft 
decision on this matter for adoption by Conference of the Parties at its twenty -seventh session 
(November 2022) and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to 
the Paris Agreement at its fourth session (Novemb er 2022);  
(f) Convene at its fifty -sixth session an in -session technical workshop for Parties 
on how the priority areas listed in paragraph 11(b) above can guide implementation of the 
six elements of Action for Climate Empowerment, through a short -term action  plan guiding, FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
 19 inter alia, the organization of the annual in -session Action for Climate Empowerment 
dialogue;  
(g) Undertake a midterm review of progress at its sixty -fourth session (2026) and 
a final review of progress at its seventy -fourth session (2031) of t he Glasgow work 
programme to evaluate its effectiveness, identify any emerging gaps and needs, and inform 
any consideration of improving the work programme, as appropriate;  
12. Further r equest  the secretariat to assist the Chair of the Subsidiary Body for 
Impl ementation with activities related to the facilitation of implementation referred to in 
paragraph 11(a) above and , under the guidance of the Chair, to:  
(a) Prepare an annual summary report on progress in implementing activities 
under the Glasgow work programme  for consideration by the Subsidiary Body for 
Implementation at its second regular session of each year;  
(b) Prepare a synthesis report ahead of the midterm review and the final review of 
the Glasgow work programme on the integration of Action for Climate Empo werment into 
relevant reports and communications submitted by Parties to the secretariat as part of the 
UNFCCC process for consideration by the Subsidiary Body for Implementation at its sixty -
fourth and seventy -fourth sessions , respectively;  
13. Invite  Parties  and observers to submit their views on matters to be addressed at the in -
session workshop referred to in paragraph 11(f) above via the submission portal3 by 28 
February 2022;  
14. Take note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be under taken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraph 12 above and paragraphs 6(b –c) and 11 of the 
annex;  
15. Request  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
1. 
 
 3 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx . FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
20  Annex  
Glasgow work programme on Action for Climate 
Empowerment  
I. Guiding principles  
1. The Glasgow work programme on Action for Climate Empowerment (ACE) sets out 
the scope of and provides the basis for activities related to implementing ACE in accordance 
with the provisions of the Convention and the Paris Agreement. The work programme serve s 
as a flexible framework for country -driven action that addresses the specific needs and 
circumstances of Parties and reflects their national priorities and initiatives while building 
long-term capacity and expertise in developed and developing countries for implementing 
ACE, including by promoting strong domestic enabling environments.  
2. The Glasgow work programme builds on work undertaken in response to relevant 
decisions of the Conference of the Parties (COP) and the Conference  of the Parties serving 
as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement (CMA) .1 
3. The Glasgow work programme shall be guided by:  
(a) A country -driven approach;  
(b) Cost-effectiveness;  
(c) Flexibility;  
(d) A gender and intergenerational  approach;  
(e) A phased approach that integrates activities under  Article 6 of the Convention 
and Article 12 of the Paris Agreement into climate change programmes and strategies;  
(f) The promotion of partnerships, networks and synergies, in particular synergies 
among conventions;  
(g) An interdisciplinary multisectoral, multi -stakeholder and participatory 
approach;  
(h) A holistic systematic approach;  
(i) The principles of sustainable development.  
II. Scope  
4. The Glasgow work programme comprises activities under four action -oriented 
priority areas and the six ACE elements that Parties, taking i nto account national 
circumstances, and non -Party stakeholders may carry out to enhance implementation of ACE, 
including through cooperation, collaboration and partnerships.  
III. Priority areas  
5. Four thematic priority areas have been identified as relevant to ad dressing gaps and 
challenges in implementing the six ACE elements and for creating opportunities to accelerate 
that implementation.  
 
 1  Decisions 15/CP.18, 19/CP.20, 17/CP.22, 15/CP.25 and 17/CMA.1 . FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
 21 A. Policy coherence  
6. Recognizing that activities related to ACE are also carried out under workstreams that 
are part of the UNFC CC process, as well as under frameworks and processes of the United 
Nations system and in multiple sectors and strategies at the national level, the priority area 
of policy coherence has the aim of strengthening coordination of work under ACE. Efficient 
and effective ACE implementation can be enabled by undertaking the following at the 
international level:  
(a) Inviting all constituted bodies under the Convention and the Paris Agreement 
to include in their regular reports information on how ACE is implemented un der their 
respective workstreams;  
(b) Inviting  the Presidencies  of the COP and the CMA , with the support of the 
secretariat, to convene an in -session event at each of their session s focused on a thematic area 
relevant to the Convention and the Paris Agreement to promote coherence and strengthen 
coordination of work on ACE undertaken by constituted bodies and other United Nations 
entities and under other United Nations processes;  
(c) Enco uraging the secretariat and other United Nations and intergovernmental 
organizations to strengthen their collaboration with a view to ensuring the provision of 
coordinated support to Parties for their activities related to ACE and avoiding duplication of 
work. 
7. At the national level, Parties are encouraged to strengthen integration of ACE into the 
development and implementation of national climate policies, plans, strategies and action, 
including by developing and implementing a national strategy that covers  all six ACE 
elements and facilitates broad cross -sectoral coordination and collaboration.  
8. In addition, at the national level, Parties are also encouraged to continue designating, 
assigning responsibilities to, and providing support, including technical an d financial 
support, and access to information and materials to national ACE focal points. Such 
responsibilities could include identifying areas for possible international cooperation and 
opportunities for strengthening synergies with action under other co nventions, and 
coordinating the preparation of the chapter on ACE in national communications, ensuring 
that relevant contact information, including weblinks, is provided therein.  
B. Coordinated action  
9. This priority area has the aim of continuing to build long-term, strategic, operational, 
multilevel, multi -stakeholder, intergenerational partnerships that bring together different 
expertise, resources and knowledge to accelerate ACE implementation. Such partnerships 
can be fostered by undertaking the followi ng activities at the international level:  
(a) Holding an annual in -session ACE dialogue at the first regular session of the 
Subsidiary Body for Implementation each year with the participation of Parties, 
representatives of relevant constituted bodies , and rele vant experts, practitioners and 
stakeholders that focuses on the progress of implementation of the Glasgow work programme 
and on its four priority areas:  
(i) Policy coherence;  
(ii) Coordinated action;  
(iii) Tools and support;  
(iv) Monitoring, evaluation and reporting;  
(b) Organ izing  an annual youth forum in collaboration with children and youth 
organizations, including  the constituency of youth non -governmental organizations (NGOs) 
and other youth NGOs;  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
22  (c) Inviting Parties  and stakeholders to develop international, regional and 
national programmes and activities, including the preparation of training and education 
materials and tools, using local languages where applicable and practical.  
10. At the national level, Parties are encouraged to:  
(a) Prepare assessments of needs specific to natio nal circumstances in the area of 
ACE implementation, including use of social research  methods and other relevant 
instruments to determine target audiences and partnerships;  
(b) Strengthen in -country coordination and institutional arrangements at different 
levels to avoid duplication of efforts, promote knowledge -sharing, foster local networks and 
enhance collaboration among all stakeholders in relation to ACE implementation.  
C. Tools and support  
11. This priority area is aimed at enhancing access to tools and support  for building 
capacity and raising awareness among Parties, national ACE focal points and non -Party 
stakeholders with regard to ACE. ACE implementation can be enhanced by undertaking the 
following activities at the international level:  
(a) Requesting the secre tariat to:  
(i) Strengthen the network of national ACE focal points at the international and 
regional level, including by facilitating regular exchanges of views, good practices 
and lessons learned to build and strengthen capacity and skills, and by facilitati ng peer 
support for ACE implementation;  
(ii) Raise awareness of and promote bilateral and multilateral initiatives and 
programmes related to ACE implementation;  
(iii) Enhance communication and information -sharing about ACE and its six 
elements through existing UNFCCC  web-based resources and communication 
activities;  
(b) Inviting relevant international organizations, including United Nations 
organizations, and other non -Party stakeholders to:  
(i) Support implementation of ACE activities through their work programmes and 
throug h specific programmes focused on climate change, including, as appropriate, 
by providing and disseminating information and resources, such as visual materials 
that could be easily translated and adapted, and by providing financial and technical 
support;  
(ii) Facilitate partnerships and networking among Parties, intergovernmental 
organizations, NGOs, academia, the private sector, state and local governments and 
community -based organizations with the aim of jointly designing, implementing and 
evaluating ACE activi ties and policies;  
(iii) Contribute to implementation of the Glasgow work programme in their areas 
of competence;  
(iv) Support Parties in developing long -term, strategic and country -driven 
approaches to ACE that are linked to national climate change objectives, and in 
strengthening relevant national institutions;  
(v) Design and implement training programmes, develop guidelines and provide 
other direct support to national ACE focal points;  
(vi) Facilitate, in partnership with Parties and civil society actors, the organization 
of global, regional, subregional and national workshops focusing on specific priority 
areas of the Glasgow work programme.  
12. At the national level, Parties are encouraged to determine the most efficient and cost -
effective way to implement ACE activities, and  to develop funding instruments  at the national FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
 23 level, where appropriate, to support such activities, in particular at the subnational and local 
level.  
13. Parties are also encouraged to establish partnerships with other Parties, as well as with 
intergovernmental organizations, NGOs and other stakeholders, to facilitate implementation 
of ACE activities, including with a view to developing institutional and technical capacity 
to: 
(a) Identify gaps and needs related to ACE implementation;  
(b) Assess the eff ectiveness of ACE activities;  
(c) Consider linkages between ACE activities, implementation of policies and 
measures to mitigate and adapt to climate change, and other means of implementation under 
the Convention and the Paris Agreement, such as technology tran sfer and capacity -building.  
14. Parties are further encouraged to build the capacity of youth to embark on and lead 
ACE implementation and promote youth participation in relevant climate processes at the 
national and international level, including by including  youth in national delegations at 
UNFCCC meetings.  
D. Monitoring,  evaluation and reporting  
15. This priority area is aimed at strengthening monitoring, evaluation and reporting of 
the implementation of all six ACE elements at all levels, according to Parties’ spe cific 
priorities, needs and national circumstances. Monitoring, evaluation and reporting can be 
strengthened by undertaking the following activities at the international level :  
(a) Inviting Parties to provide information in their national communications, 
wher e possible, and in other reports on activities and policies involving ACE implementation, 
reporting on accomplishments, lessons learned, experience, and challenges and opportunities, 
noting that the six ACE elements provide a useful guide for this reportin g; 
(b) Inviting United Nations agencies, intergovernmental organizations and other 
non-Party stakeholders to submit information to the secretariat on ACE implementation at all 
levels for inclusion in the annual summary report on progress in implementing activi ties 
under the Glasgow work programme . 
16. At the national level, Parties are encouraged to share with the public and all 
stakeholders the findings contained in their national communications and national action 
plans or domestic programmes on climate change re garding ACE implementation, using 
tools such as social media to reach and engage multiple stakeholders, as appropriate. Parties 
are also encouraged to promote greater involvement of non -Party stakeholders to support 
them in monitoring, evaluating and repor ting ACE activities.  
IV. Implement ing the six elements of Action for Climate 
Empowerment  
A. Parties and non -Party stakeholders  
17. As part of their national programmes to implement the Convention and the Paris 
Agreement, and taking into account national circumstances , Parties and non -Party 
stakeholders are encouraged to undertake activities under the six ACE elements, which are 
listed  in paragraphs 18 –23 below.  
1. Education  
18. Parties and non -Party stakeholders are encouraged to collaborate on, promote, 
facilitate, develop and implement formal and non -formal education and training programmes 
focused on climate change at all levels, targeting  the involvement of women and youth in FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
24  particular, including by organizing exchanges or secondments of personnel to provide 
training for experts.  
2. Training  
19. Parties and non -Party stakeholders are encouraged to collaborate on, promote, 
facilitate, develop and  implement training programmes focused on climate change for groups 
with a key role in climate action, such as scientific, technical and managerial personnel, 
journalists, teachers and community leaders at the international, national, regional, 
subregional  and local level, as appropriate. Technical skills and knowledge are required to 
adequately address and respond to climate change issues.  
3. Public awareness  
20. Parties and non -Party stakeholders are encouraged to cooperate in, promote, facilitate, 
develop and i mplement public awareness programmes on climate change and its effects at 
the national and, as appropriate, subregional, regional and international level by, inter alia, 
encouraging individuals to contribute to and take their own action to address climate change, 
supporting climate -friendly policies and fostering behavioural change, including through the 
use of popular media, noting the important role that social media platforms and strategies can 
play in this context.  
4. Public access to information  
21. Parties a nd non -Party stakeholders are encouraged to facilitate public access to data 
and information by providing information on climate change initiatives, policies and results 
of actions that enables the public and other stakeholders to understand, address and r espond 
to climate change. This should take into account such factors as quality of Internet access, 
level of literacy and language differences.  
5. Public participation  
22. Parties and non -Party stakeholders are encouraged to promote public participation in 
addres sing climate change and its effects and in developing adequate responses by facilitating 
feedback, debate and partnership in relation to climate change activities and relevant 
governance, noting the important role that social media platforms and strategies  can play in 
this context.  
6. International cooperation  
23. Parties and non -Party stakeholders are encouraged to promote subregional, regional 
and international cooperation in undertaking activities within the framework of the Glasgow 
work programme, which has th e potential to enhance the collective ability of Parties to 
implement the Convention and the Paris Agreement. Intergovernmental organizations and 
NGOs can also contribute to its implementation. Such cooperation can further enhance 
synergies of action under  different conventions and improve the effectiveness of all 
sustainable development efforts.  
B. Parties  
24. As part of their national programmes and activities in implementing the Convention 
and the Paris Agreement, and within the framework of the Glasgow work programme, Parties 
could undertake the activities listed in paragraphs 25 –30 below, as appropriate.  
1. Education  
25. Parties are encouraged to:  
(a) Integrate climate change learning into the curricula of schools and other 
institutions that provide formal educati on, and support non -formal and informal education on 
climate change, including respect for and inclusion of indigenous and traditional knowledge;  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
 25 (b) Strengthen education, training and skills development in national institutions 
to deliver action on climate ch ange learning.  
2. Training  
26. Parties are encouraged to:  
(a) Develop tools and methodologies for supporting climate change training and 
skills development through collaboration, and provide training programmes for groups with 
a key role in climate change communicati on and education, including journalists, teachers, 
academics, youth, children and community leaders;  
(b) Enhance the capacity of teachers and academics to integrate climate into their 
curricula by developing materials and promoting training focused on climate change at the 
regional and international level, where appropriate;  
(c) Train government officials from different ministries and departments, 
including those working in local government, on how climate change relates to their 
respective areas of work with a vie w to strengthening institutional and technical capacity.  
3. Public awareness  
27. Parties are encouraged to:  
(a) Inform the public on the causes of climate change and sources of greenhouse 
gas emissions, as well as on actions that can be taken at all levels to address  climate change;  
(b) Encourage the public to contribute to mitigation and adaptation actions as part 
of public awareness programmes;  
(c) Develop strategies for communicating on climate change on the basis of 
targeted sociological research with a view to encouragin g behavioural change;  
(d) Conduct surveys, including of knowledge, attitudes, behaviour and practices, 
to establish the level of public awareness of climate issues, which can serve as a basis for 
further work and support the monitoring of the impact of activit ies; 
(e) Develop criteria for identifying good practices for ACE and disseminate 
information thereon, at the national or regional level according to national circumstances and 
capacities, and promote the sharing of such practices;  
(f) Conduct government campaigns to inform the public on issues such as climate 
change, climate action and vulnerabilities, including through social media, electronic 
communication, festivals and cultural events, or by partnering with urban and rural local 
communities;  
(g) Create communities of practice, knowledge and learning that are available and 
accessible to a wide range of stakeholders, including women, children and youth, the elderly 
and persons with disabilities.  
4. Public access to information  
28. Parties are encouraged to:  
(a) Increase the avai lability of copyright -free and translated material on climate 
change, in accordance with laws and standards relating to the protection of copyrighted 
material;  
(b) Seek opportunities to widely disseminate information on climate change. 
Measures could include t ranslating information into other languages, as appropriate, and 
distributing simplified versions of key documents on climate change, including 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Assessment Reports;  
(c) Include accurate information on climate change science and mitigation on 
national and subnational government websites;  
(d) Make scientific information on climate change mitigation and adaptation freely 
available and accessible to the public;  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
26  (e) Make national climate reports available in local languages  for vulnerable 
communities, including people with special needs;  
(f) Improve public access to information on climate change at the national and 
local level using a range of methods and tools, taking into account the different ways 
particular communities, grou ps and individuals, including women and children and youth, 
may be impacted by climate change.  
5. Public participation  
29. Parties are encouraged to:  
(a) Seek public participation and input, including from youth, women, civil society 
organizations and other groups, i n formulating and implementing efforts to address climate 
change and in relation to preparing national communications, and encourage the involvement 
and participation of representatives of all stakeholders and major groups in the climate 
change negotiation  process;  
(b) Foster the participation of all stakeholders  in ACE implementation and invite 
them to report thereon. In particular, enhance the active participation of youth, women, civil 
society organizations and the media;  
(c) Establish public –private or public –non-profit partnerships between national 
ACE focal points for implementing ACE activities (e.g. university partnerships);  
(d) Hold frequent, inclusive civil society consultations on climate decision -
making, including follow -up processes with specific outcomes s uch as feedback surveys that 
enable participants to express how they feel their input was used;  
(e) Develop guidelines for enhancing public participation in climate change 
decision -making and the inclusion of  children and youth, and for assisting local governm ents 
and the public in climate change decision -making.  
6. International cooperation  
30. Parties are encouraged to:  
(a) Seek to enhance cooperation and coordination in developing and implementing 
ACE activities at the international  and regional level. This includes id entifying partners and 
building networks with other Parties, intergovernmental organizations, NGOs, the private  
sector, provincial and local governments, and community -based organizations. Parties should 
also promote and facilitate the exchange of informat ion and materials and the sharing of 
experience and good practices;  
(b) Promote and encourage regional programmes and projects developed by 
Parties, intergovernmental organizations, NGOs, the private sector, provincial  and local 
governments, and community -based organizations that support the implementation of ACE 
and promote the sharing of experience, including through the dissemination of best practices 
and lessons learned and the exchange of information and data.   
10th plenary meeting  
11 Novemb er 2021FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
 27 Decision 19/CP.26  
Matters relating to the forum on the impact of the 
implementation of response measures  
The Conference of the Parties and the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol , 
Recalling  decisions 7/CP.24, 4/CP.25, 3/CMP.14, 4/CMP.15 and 7/CMA.1,  
1. Welcome  with appreciation  the annual report of the Katowice Committee of Experts 
on the Impacts of the Implementation of Response Measures (hereinafter referred to as the 
Katowice Committee on Im pacts) for 2020 –20211 and the progress of the Katowice 
Committee on Impacts in supporting the work of the forum on the impact of the 
implementation of response measures (hereinafter referred to as the forum) , noting that, on 
an exceptional basis, the 2020 –2021 annual report was considered before consideration of 
the 2020 annual report and continuation of consideration of the 2019 annual report;  
2. Welcome the informal event and technical expert meetings held virtually in 2020 and 
20212 by the Chairs of the S ubsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice and the 
Subsidiary Body for Implementation, which served as input to the forum’s work on 
implementing the relevant activities in the workplan of the forum and its Katowice 
Committee on Impacts ,3 and underscore  the challenges experienced with participating in 
meetings in a virtual setting in 2020 and 2021;  
3. Note  the limitations to progress and limited progress in the implementation of the 
functions and modalities of the forum and of certain activities in  the workplan by the forum, 
including due to the exceptional circumstances, and therefore  request  the secretariat to hold 
a two -day workshop in conjunction with the fifty-sixth sessions of the subsidiary bodies (June 
2022)  to further advance the implementa tion of workplan activities  3, 4 and 11;  
4. Welcome  the progress made by the Katowice Committee on Impacts in implementing 
the workplan and the inputs of experts, practitioners  and relevant organizations to the work 
of the forum and its Katowice Committee on Impacts;  
5. Adopt the recommendations pertaining to activity 1 of the workplan contained in 
annex I, forwarded by the forum in the 2020 –2021 annual report of the Katowice Committee 
on Impacts , and invite Parties to implement them, as applicable;  
6. Adopt  the revised rules of proce dure of the Katowice Committee on Impacts  contained 
in annex II;  
7. Recall  decision 7/CMA.1 and the functions of the forum and note that the forum, when 
considering the annual reports of the Katowice Committee on Impacts  and the 
recommendations contained ther ein, should consider ways to promote actions to minimize 
the adverse impacts and maximize the positive impacts of the implementation of response 
measures ; 
8. Request  the forum, at the fifty-sixth sessions of the subsidiary bodies,  to consider ways 
to promote actions to minimize the adverse impacts and maximize the positive impacts of the 
implementation of response measures  on the recommendations contained in annex I;  
9. Recall  the rules of procedure of the Katowice Committee  on Impacts4 and encourage  
groups to nominate members to the Katowice Committee on Impacts taking into account the 
goal of achieving gender balance;  
 
 1 Katowice Committee on Impacts  document KCI/2021/4/8. Available at https://unfccc.int/process -and-
meetings/bodies/constituted -bodies/KCI . 
 2 See https://unfccc.int/topics/mitigation/workstreams/response -measures/workshops -and-events .  
 3 Contained in annex II to decisions 4/CP.25, 4/CMP.15 and  4/CMA.2.  
 4 Decision 4/CMA.2, annex I.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
28  10. Request  the secretariat to organize a regional workshop on activity 3 of the workplan 
before the fifty-sixth sessions of the subsidia ry bodies  in collaboration with relevant 
organizations and stakeholders to address regional needs and acknowledge the work that is 
being carried out by the Katowice Committee on Impacts and note that further regional 
workshops on activity 3 could be decide d by the forum;  
11. Invite  Parties and observers to submit via the submission portal5 by April 2022 their 
views on the elements of the midterm review of the workplan of the forum and its Katowice 
Committee on Impacts  and request  the secretariat to prepare a summary o f the submissions 
with a view to informing Parties’ discussion on the midt erm review starting at the fifty -sixth 
sessions of the subsidiary bodies;6 
12. Take  note of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 3 and 11 above;  
13. Request  that the actions of the se cretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resources.  
 
 5 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx . 
 6 As per decision  19/CMA.1, para. 24.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
 29 Annex I  
Recommendations forwarded by the forum pertaining to 
activity 1 of the workplan: exploring approaches to inform 
the development and implementation of climate change 
mitigation strategies, plans, policies and programmes that 
maximize the positive and minimi ze the negative impacts of 
response measures  
1. Encourage Parties to engage relevant stakeholders at each step of the process of 
designing and implementing climate mitigation policies and policies to achieve sustainable 
development , including through social d ialogue, when possible and subject to national 
circumstances. The relevant stakeholders among others include workers, employers, 
organizations, academia, the public and private sectors, women and civil society.  
2. Encourage Parties to explore complementary po licies, such as economic policies, 
social protection and labour policies, to help strengthen the outcomes of the implementation 
of mitigation strategies, plans, policies and programmes , including nationally determined 
contributions and low -emission develop ment strategies.  
3. Encourage Parties to strengthen international and regional cooperation as it 
contributes to planning and implementation of mitigation policies with environmental and 
socioeconomic benefits, for example to help facilitate technology develop ment and transfer 
in accordance with Article 10 of the Paris Agreement, and strive towards harmonized regional 
approaches.  
4. Encourage Parties to use existing qualitative and quantitative assessment 
methodologies and tools to understand social, economic and employment effects of proposed 
mitigation measures as a way to inform and guide climate policies and to maximize the 
positive and minimize the negative effects of the implementation of response measures. More 
analysis of impacts, including, inter alia, sec toral, national, subnational, domestic and cross 
border, would be useful for informing climate policies and understanding how to maximize 
the positive and minimize the negative effects of the implementation of response measures.  
5. Encourage the forum and its Katowice Committee of Experts on the Impacts of the 
Implementation of Response Measures to enhance the capacity of Parties, particularly 
developing country Parties, through training and capacity -building efforts, including existing 
initiatives. This will enable Parties to carry out their own assessments and analyses of the 
impacts of response measures.FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
30  Annex II  
Revised rules of procedure of the Katowi ce Committee of 
Experts on the Impacts of the Implementation of Response 
Measures  
I. Scope  
1. These rules of procedure shall apply to the Katowice Committee of Experts on the 
Impacts of the Implementation of Response Measures (KCI) in accordance with decision 
7/CMA.1 and its annex.  
II. Mandate  
2. The Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris 
Agreement (CMA), by decision 7/CMA.1, decided to establish the KCI to support the work 
of the forum on the impact of the implementation of respons e measures in implementing its 
work programme and operating in accordance with the terms of reference contained in the 
annex to that decision.  
3. The forum and the KCI may use the following modalities, as appropriate and as 
decided on a case -by-case basis,  to carry out the work programme of the forum:  
(a) Building awareness and enhancing information -sharing through the exchange 
and sharing of experience and best practices;  
(b) Preparing technical papers, case studies, specific examples and guidelines;  
(c) Receiving inpu ts from experts, practitioners and relevant organizations;  
(d) Organizing workshops.  
III. Members  
4. The CMA, by decision 7/CMA.1, decided that the KCI shall be composed of 14 
members, of which:  
(a) Two members from each of the five United Nations regional groups;  
(b) One member from the least developed countries;  
(c) One member from the small island developing States;  
(d) Two members from relevant intergovernmental organizations.1  
5. By the same decision, the CMA also decided that members shall be nominated by 
their respective grou ps. Groups are encouraged to nominate members taking into account the 
goal of achieving gender balance. The Chairs of the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and 
Technological Advice (SBSTA) and the Subsidiary Body for Implementation (SBI) shall be 
notified of these appointments.2  
6. The CMA further  decided that members shall serve in their expert capacity and should 
have relevant qualifications and expertise in the technical and socioeconomic fields related 
to the areas of the work programme of the forum.3 
 
 1 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(b).  
 2 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4( d).  
 3 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(c).  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
 31 7. Further, the CMA decided that members shall serve a term of two years and be eligible 
to serve a maximum of two consecutive terms in office.4 The following rules shall apply:  
(a) Half of the members shall be nominated initially for a term of three years and 
half of the members for a term of two years;  
(b) Thereafter, members are nominated for a term of two years;  
(c) The members shall remain in office until their successors are nominated. In 
such a case, the KCI shall notify the Chairs of the SBSTA and the SBI . 
8. The ter m of office of a member shall commence at the first meeting of the KCI in the 
calendar year of their appointment and end immediately before the first meeting of the KCI 
in the calendar year after their second calendar year5 in office.  
9. If a member of the K CI resigns or is otherwise unable to complete the assigned term 
of office or to perform the functions of that office, the KCI shall request the group that 
nominated the member to nominate another member for the remainder of the unexpired term, 
in which cas e the appointment shall count as one term. In such a case, the KCI shall notify 
the Chairs of the SBSTA and the SBI.  
10. If a member is unable to participate in two consecutive meetings of the KCI or unable 
to perform the functions and tasks set by the KCI, th e Co -Chairs of the KCI will bring this 
matter to the attention of the KCI and seek clarification from the group that nominated that 
member on the status of their membership.  
IV. Conflict of interest  
11. The KCI members must promptly disclose, and recuse themselves  from, any 
deliberations or decision -making that could have a bearing on their personal or financial 
interests, in order to avoid a conflict of interest or the appearance of one. Further, KCI 
members shall not disclose any information deemed by the KCI as confidential which they 
receive in the course of their duties, even after leaving the KCI. 
V. Co-Chairs  
12. The CMA decided that the KCI shall elect, on a consensus basis, two members from 
among its members to serve as Co -Chairs for a term of two years each, tak ing into account 
the need to ensure equitable geographical representation.6 
13. The CMA also decided that if one of the Co -Chairs is temporarily unable to fulfil the 
obligations of the office, another member designated by the KCI shall serve as Co-Chair.7 
14. If one of the Co -Chairs is unable to complete the term of office, the KCI shall elect a 
replacement from among its members of the relevant group of the incumbent Co -Chair, if 
available, to complete that term of office.  
15. The Co -Chairs shall colla borate in chairing meetings of the KCI and in facilitating the 
work of the KCI throughout the year, in accordance with the workplan of the forum and its 
KCI, to ensure coherence between meetings.  
16. Following the completion of the Co -Chairs’ two -year term of office, the KCI shall 
nominate two members as Co -Chairs to serve the next two -year term of office.  
17. The Co -Chairs shall declare the opening and closing of meetings of the KCI, ensure 
the observance of these rules of procedure and rule on points of order.  
 
 4 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(e).  
 5 Third calendar year for members serving an initial term of three years in accordance with para . 7(a) 
above . 
 6 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(f).  
 7 Decision 7/CMA.1, an nex, para . 4(g).  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
32  18. The Co -Chairs shall call upon speakers at meetings of the KCI in the order in which 
they signify their desire to speak. The secretariat shall maintain a list of speakers. The Co -
Chairs may call a speaker to order if their remarks are not relevant to the subj ect under 
discussion.  
19. The KCI may further define additional roles and responsibilities for the Co -Chairs.  
20. In exercising their functions, the Co -Chairs shall remain under the authority of the 
KCI.  
VI. Secretariat  
21. The secretariat shall support and facilitate th e work of the KCI, by:  
(a) Making the necessary arrangements for the meetings of the KCI, including 
announcing meetings, issuing invitations, making the necessary travel arrangements for 
members eligible for funding for their participation in meetings and mak ing available 
relevant documents for meetings;  
(b) Maintaining meeting records and arranging for the storage and preservation of 
documents of meetings of the KCI;  
(c) Making documents of meetings of the KCI available to the public, unless 
otherwise decided by the KCI.  
22. The secretariat shall assist the KCI in tracking its actions, in accordance with the 
workplan of the forum and its KCI, in its annual report.  
23. In addition, the secretariat shall perform any other functions assigned by the KCI, in 
accordance with the wo rkplan of the forum and its KCI.  
VII. Meetings  
24. The KCI shall meet twice per year, for two days per meeting, in conjunction with the 
sessions of the subsidiary bodies.  
25. At least nine members of the KCI must be present to constitute a quorum.  
26. Members are requeste d to confirm their attendance at meetings of the KCI as early as 
possible, and at least four weeks prior to a meeting for members eligible for funding for their 
participation, to enable sufficient time for the secretariat to make the necessary travel 
arran gements.  
27. Should technical and financial resources permit, open meetings of the KCI shall be 
webcast on the UNFCCC website.  
28. At each of its meetings, the KCI shall propose the dates of its next meeting. The Co -
Chairs will agree the dates of the next meeting in consultation with the secretariat.  
VIII.  Agenda and documentation for meetings  
29. The Co -Chairs, assisted by the secretariat, shall prepare the provisional agenda and 
provisional annotated agenda for each meeting of the KCI in accordance with the workplan 
of the forum and its KCI. The Co -Chairs will prepare a report on the meeting, to b e agreed 
by members, and this will be made available on the UNFCCC website. The Co -Chairs will 
report back to the forum on the meeting of the KCI.  
30. The provisional agenda and provisional annotated agenda for each meeting shall be 
transmitted to the members  of the KCI at least four weeks in advance of the meeting.  
31. Members may propose additions or changes to the provisional agenda and provisional 
annotated agenda, in writing, to the secretariat within one week of receiving the documents, FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
 33 and these additions or changes shall be considered for a revised provisional agenda and 
provisional annotated agenda by the secretariat in agreement with the Co -Chairs.  
32. The secretariat shall transmit the provisional agenda and provisional annotated agenda 
and any supporting documentation to the members at least two weeks prior to a meeting. 
Documents may be transmitted after that date with the approval of the Co -Chairs.  
33. Documents for a meeting shall be published on the UNFCCC website at least two 
weeks prior to that meeting,  to the extent possible.  
34. The KCI shall, at the beginning of each meeting, adopt the agenda for that meeting.  
35. The CMA decided that members of the KCI shall prepare an annual report for 
consideration by the forum with a view to making recommendations for co nsideration by the 
SBSTA and the SBI, which, in turn, are to recommend actions to the Conference of the 
Parties (COP), the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol (CMP)  and the CMA  for their consideration and a doption.8  
36. The annual report shall be made available on the UNFCCC website before the relevant 
sessions of the COP, the CMP  and the CMA . 
IX. Decision -making  
37. The CMA decided that the KCI shall operate on the basis of consensus of its 
members.9 
38. The KCI may use electronic means to facilitate its work, as appropriate and in 
accordance with the workplan of the forum and its KCI.  
X. Working language  
39. The working language of the KCI shall be English.  
XI. Participation of expert advisers in meetings  
40. The KCI, in fulfill ing its mandate, should draw upon outside expertise at its meetings.  
41. The Co -Chairs may, in consultation with the KCI, invite representatives of 
international organizations, the private sector, academia and/or civil society to participate in 
a meeting of the K CI as expert advisers on specific issues under consideration at the meeting.  
XII. Participation of observers  
42. The CMA decided  that meetings of the KCI shall be open to attendance as observers 
by all Parties and accredited observer organizations, unless otherwise  decided by the KCI.10  
43. The KCI may decide to close a meeting or part thereof to observers at any time.  
44. The secretariat shall make the dates and venues of the meetings available to the public 
to enable participation by observers.  
45. Observers may, with the a greement of the KCI, be invited to address the KCI on 
matters under consideration by the KCI. The Co -Chairs shall notify the KCI one week in 
advance of the meeting of any proposed interventions by observers.  
46. The KCI may request interventions from observers throughout the meeting, as 
appropriate.  
 
 8 Decision 7/CMA.1, para. 12, and annex, para. 4(j).  
 9 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(i).  
 10 Decision 7/CMA.1, annex, para. 4(h).   FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
34  XIII.  Use of electronic means of communication  
47. The KCI shall use electronic means of communication to facilitate intersessional 
work , as appropriate and in accordance with the workplan of the forum and its KCI . The 
secretariat shall ensure that a secure and dedicated web interface is established and 
maintained to facilitate the work of the KCI.  
XIV.  Working groups  
48. The KCI may establish working groups among its members to support the forum in 
performing its functions. The working groups may receive inputs from experts, practitioners 
and relevant organizations in accordance with the workplan of the forum and its KCI and in 
line with paragraphs 40–41 above.  
XV. Workplan  
49. The KCI will supp ort the work of the forum in line with the workplan of the forum 
and its KCI.  
XVI.  Amendments to the rules of procedure  
50. The KCI may recommend amendments to these rules of procedure for consideration 
by the forum and approval by the subsidiary bodies.  
51. Proposals and amendments to proposals for the rules of procedure may be introduced 
and submitted to the secretariat in writing by KCI members; such proposals and amendments 
shall be circulated for consideration by all members of the KCI.  
52. No proposal for the rules o f procedure shall be discussed or put forward for a decision 
at any meeting unless copies have been circulated to the KCI members no later than two 
weeks before the meeting.  
XVII.  Overriding authority of the Convention, the Kyoto 
Protocol and the Paris Agreement  
53. In the event of a conflict between any provision of these rules and any provision of 
the Convention, the Kyoto Protocol or the Paris Agreement, the provision of the Convention, 
the Kyoto Protocol  or the Paris Agreement shall take precedence.  
Document info rmation  
Version  Description  
Version 2  Revision of paragraph 7 and addition of paragraph 11  
Version 1  Adopted by decisions 4/CP.25, 4/CMA.15 and 4/CMA.2  
12th plenary meeting  
13 Novemb er 2021FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
 35 Decision 20/CP.26  
Gender and climate change  
The Conference of the  Parties ,  
  Recalling decisions 36/CP.7, 1/CP.16, 23/CP.18, 18/CP.20, 1/CP.21, 21/CP.22, 
3/CP.23 and 3/CP.25, the Paris Agreement and the Katowice climate package,  
 Expressing its  appreciation  for the contributions received from Parties and observers 
in support of gender mainstreaming work undertaken through the enhanced Lima work 
programme on gender and its gender action plan to date,  
  Acknowledging  with appreciation  the constructive, ongoing engagement in virtual 
meetings and workshops in support  of gender action plan activities A .2 and D .61 and taking 
note that, while participation has broadened beyond the UNFCCC process as a result of the 
virtual format  of meetings and workshops , some participants, particularly those in developing 
countries, continue to experience significant challenges related to  Internet  acces s and 
connecti vity and the technological equipment required for virtual participation ,  
 Recognizing with concern  the unprecedented crisis caused by the coronavirus disease 
2019  pandemic, the uneven nature of the global response to the pandemic  and the pandemic’s  
multifaceted effects  on all spheres of society, including the deepening of pre -existing 
inequalities , including gender inequality,  and resulting vulnerabilities, which may negatively 
impact the implementation of effective gender -responsive clima te action  and urging  Parties 
to accelerate their efforts to advance implementation of the enhance d Lima work programme 
on gender and its gender action plan , 
 Acknowledging  the important role of the enhanced Lima work programme on gender 
and its gender acti on plan2 in advancing gender equality and the empowerment of women 
and girls in the UNFCCC process,  
 Reminding  Parties of its encouragement to appoint and provide support for a national 
gender and climate change focal point for climate negotiations, imple mentation and 
monitoring3 and noting  that 94 countries have appointed such a focal point to date,  
 Recognizing that the full, meaningful and equal participation and leadership of women 
in all aspects of the UNFCCC process and in national - and local -level climate policy and 
action is vital for achieving long -term climate goals4 and inviting  Parties to engage  youth and 
indigenous peoples in climate action, including by considering their inclusion in Party 
delegations , 
 Noting the engagement of P arties, the secretariat and other relevant stakeholders in 
activities and events under  the U nited Nations  system related to gender equality and climate 
change and in line with the gender action plan priority areas , 
 Taking note of Parties’ efforts  in integ rating gender considerations  into the ir 
nationally determined contributions5 and encourag ing Parties  to make greater efforts in 
integratin g gender  into nationally determined contributions and national climate change 
policies, plans, strategies and action,  
1. Recalls  that the intermediate review of the progress of implementation of the activities 
contained in the gender action plan is due at the fifty -sixth session of the Subsidiary Body 
for Implementation (June 2022);6 
 
 1 See decision 3/CP.25, annex, tables 1 (activity A.2) and 4 (activity D.6).   
 2 Decision 3/CP.25.  
 3 See d ecision 3/CP.25, para. 11.  
 4 See d ecision 3/CP.25, para. 7.  
 5 FCCC/PA/CMA/2021/8/Rev.1 , paras. 106 –113. 
 6  See decision 3/CP.25, para. 10.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
36  2. Invites Parties, United Nations  entities, other stakeholders and implementing entities, 
in accordance with their respective mandates and priorities , to take stock of and map progress 
in advancing gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls in line with the 
priority areas of t he gender action plan;  
3. Also i nvites  Parties and observers to submit  via the submission portal ,7 by 31 March 
2022, information on the progress of implementation of the activities contained in the gender 
action plan, areas for improvement and further work t o be undertaken, including, as 
appropriate, information on the multidimensional impacts of the coronavirus disease 20 19 
pandemic on progress, and consideration of other diverse challenges that may impact future 
implementation of the gender action plan at a ll levels;   
4. Further i nvites the International Labour Organization to prepare a technical paper 
exploring linkages between gender -responsive climate action and just transition for 
promoting inclusive opportunities for all in a low -emission economy , and to s ubmit the paper 
to the secretariat by 31 March 2022 ; 
5. Requests  the secretariat to prepare a synthesis report on the submissions referred to in 
paragraph 3 above, information and recommendations arising from virtual and in -person 
workshops and events held between 1 December 2019 and 31 March 2022, and any relevant 
research conducted in preparation for the fifty -sixth session of the Subsidiary Body for 
Implementation ; 
6. Takes note  of the annual reports on gender composition  for 2020 and 2021 ,8 which 
highlight the persistent lack of progress in in -person participation, the challenges identified 
in promot ing women’s full, equal and meaningful participation in virtual forums, and the 
urgent need for  improving the representation and leadership of women in Party delegations 
and in all bodies established under the Convention, t he Kyoto Protocol and the Paris 
Agreement and welcomes the strengthened reporting on two case studies, including data 
disaggregated by sex that provide further inform ation  on the participation of women in Party 
delegations;  
7. Requests  the secretariat to expl ore ways of automating the analysis of data 
disaggregated by sex on speaking times at UNFCCC meetings in order to continue to 
strengthen the annual report on gender composition, and to report on its findings at the 
fifty-sixth session of the Subsidiary Bod y for Implementation ; 
8. Encourages Parties and constituted bodies under the Convention to consider the case 
studies referred to  in paragraph 6 above  and promote the full, meaningful and equal 
participation of women in the UNFCCC process;  
9. Reminds  Parties and observers of the invitation for submissions , by 31 March  2022 , 
on the gender -differentiated impacts of climate change, the role of women as agents of 
change and opportunities for women;9 
10. Takes note of the report on progress of constituted bodies in integrating gender 
considerations into their respective workstreams10 and of their efforts to institutionalize such 
integration in their work and encourages constituted bodies to continue to strengthen their 
efforts in this area and promote coordination an d coherence in the context of this work , taking 
into consideration the recommendations contained in the report ; 
11. Requests  the secretariat to prepare an informal summary report prior to the fifty -sixth 
session of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation  reflec ting clearly the proposed 
responsibilities of and support for national gender and climate change focal points to enable 
them to perform their role, taking into account the multifarious, evolving and Party -driven 
nature  of the work and role of such focal po ints; 
 
 7 https://www4.unfccc.int/sites/submissionsstaging/Pages/Home.aspx . 
 8  FCCC/CP/2020/3 and FCCC/CP/2021/4.  
 9 See decision 3/CP.25, annex, table 1, activity A.4.  
 10  FCCC/CP/2021/ 5. FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
 37 12. Takes note  of the recommendations arising from the workshop on the role of national 
gender and climate change focal points11 and invites  Parties to consider those 
recommendations and take action , as appropriate , to provide support for the focal points in 
undertaking their activities;   
13. Encourages  Parties to be more explicit about the gender -responsiveness of climate 
finance with a view to s trengthening the capacity of women and furthering work under the 
gender action plan in order to facilitate access to climate finance for grass -roots women’s 
organizations as well as for indigenous peoples and local communities;  
14. Takes note  of the estimated budgetary implications of the activities to be undertaken 
by the secretariat referred to in paragraphs 5, 7 and 11 above;  
15. Requests  that the actions of the secretariat called for in this decision be undertaken 
subject to the availability of financial resour ces. 
10th plenary meeting  
11 Novemb er 2021
 
 11  See decision 3/CP.25, annex, table 1, activity A.2. The workshop was held in two parts: virtually on 
22 October 2020 and in person from 1 to 2 November 2021 in Glasgow.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
38  Decision 21/CP.26  
Dates and venues of future sessions  
The Conference of the Parties , 
 Recalling  Article 7, paragraph 4, of the Convention,  
 Also recalling  United Nations General Assembly resolution 40/243 of 18 December 
1985 on the pattern of conferences,  
 Further recalling  rule 22, paragraph 1, of the draft rul es of procedure being applied 
regarding the rotation of the office of President among the five United Nations regional 
groups,  
I. 2022   
1. Accepts  with appreciation  the offer of the Government of Egypt to host the 
twenty -seventh session of the Conference of the Parties, the seventeenth session of the 
Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the 
fourth session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Paris Agreement from Monday, 7 November, to Friday, 18 November 2022;  
2. Requests  the Executive Secretary to continue consultations with the Government of 
Egypt and to conclude a Host Country Agreement for convening the sessions, pursuant to 
United Nations General Assembly resolution 40 /243 and the provisions of United Nations 
administrative instruction ST/AI/342, including its annex, containing the model conference 
agreement, with a view to signing the Host Country Agreement as soon as possible, 
preferably before the fifty -sixth session s of the subsidiary bodies (June 2022), so as to allow 
for its prompt implementation;  
3. Also requests  the Executive Secretary to provide the host country with technical 
support and guidance on UNFCCC policies and requirements, taking into account the issues 
raised by Parties regarding the organization of sessions, and to report back regularly to the 
Bureau of the governing bodies;  
II. 2023  
4. Accepts  with appreciation  the offer of the Government of the United Arab Emirates 
to host the twenty -eighth session of the Conference of the Parties, the eighteenth session of 
the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and 
the fifth s ession of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the 
Paris Agreement from Monday, 6 November, to Friday, 17 November 2023 ;  
5. Requests  the Executive Secretary to initiate consultations with the Government of the 
United Arab Em irates and to conclude a Host Country Agreement for convening the sessions, 
pursuant to United Nations General Assembly resolution 40/243 and the provisions of United 
Nations administrative instruction ST/AI/342, including its annex, containing the model 
conference agreement, with a view to signing the Host Country Agreement as soon as 
possible, preferably before the fifty -eighth sessions of the subsidiary bodies (June 2023), so 
as to allow for its prompt implementation;  
6. Also requests  the Executive Secretar y to provide the host country with technical 
support and guidance on UNFCCC policies and requirements, taking into account the issues 
raised by Parties regarding the organization of sessions, and to report back regularly to the 
Bureau of the governing bodi es; FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
 39 III. 2024  
7. Notes  that, in keeping with the principle of rotation among the United Nations regional 
groups, the President of the twenty -ninth session of the Conference of the Parties, the 
nineteenth session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meet ing of the Parties to 
the Kyoto Protocol and the sixth session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement (November 2024) would come from the Eastern 
European States;  
8. Invites  Parties to come forward with o ffers to host the sessions referred to in 
paragraph  7 above, which will be held from Monday, 11 November, to Friday, 22 November 
2024, noting the logistical and financial risks associated with delays in selecting a host 
country and the need for the secreta riat to conduct fact -finding missions to the host country 
in a timely manner;  
9. Requests  the Subsidiary Body for Implementation, at its fifty -sixth session, to consider 
the issue of the host of the sessions referred to in paragraph 7 above and to recommend a  
draft decision on the matter for consideration and adoption by the Conference of the Parties 
at its twenty -eighth session (November 2023).  
10th plenary meeting  
11 Novemb er 2021FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
40  Decision 22/CP.26  
Programme budget for the biennium 2022 –2023  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling paragraphs 4 and 7(a) of the financial procedures for the Conference of the 
Parties, its subsidiary bodies and the secretariat,1  
Having considered  the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2022 –2023 
prepared by the Executive Secretary,2 
Noting  with appreciation the methodology applied by the secretariat in developing 
the p rogramme budget for the biennium 2022 –2023, including the early engagement with 
Parties,3 
1. Approves  the programme budget for the biennium 2022 –2023, amounting to 
EUR  62,347,351, for the purposes specified in table 1;  
2. Requests  the secretariat, in implementing its work programme for the biennium 2022 –
2023 on the basis of the programme budget approved in paragraph 1 above, to seek to allocate 
adequate resources to constituted bodies in support of their response to the mandates gi ven 
by the governing bodies and to transparency - and adaptation -related activities while 
continuing to apply the established budget methodology, including to any new mandate;  
3. Notes  with appreciation  the annual contribution of EUR 766,938 of the Host 
Govern ment to the core budget;  
4. Approves  the staffing table (see table 2) for the programme budget;  
5. Notes  that the programme budget contains elements relating to the Convention and 
the Paris Agreement as well as to the Kyoto Protocol;  
6. Adopts  the indicative scale of contributions contained in the annex;  
7. Notes  that the indicative scale of contributions covers 89 per cent of the contributions 
specified in table 1;  
8. Invites  the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto 
Protocol, at it s sixteenth session, to endorse the elements of the recommended budget as it 
applies to the Kyoto Protocol;  
9. Also invites  the United Nations General Assembly to decide, at its seventy -sixth and 
seventy -seventh sessions, on the issue of meeting the conferenc e services expenses from its 
regular budget as a continuation of existing practice;  
10. Approves  a contingency budget for conference services, amounting to 
EUR  7,597,840, to be added to the programme budget for the biennium 2022 –2023 in the 
event that the Unit ed Nations General Assembly decides not to provide resources for these 
activities in the United Nations regular budget (see table 3);  
11. Requests  the Executive Secretary to report to the Subsidiary Body for Implementation 
on the implementation of matters refe rred to in paragraphs 9 –10 above, as necessary;  
12. Authorizes  the Executive Secretary to make transfers between each of the 
appropriation lines set out in table 1, up to an aggregate limit of 15 per cent of total estimated 
expenditure for those appropriation lines, provided that a further limitation of up to –25 
per cent of each such appropriation line shall apply, while ensuring no negative impacts on 
the activities under each division;  
 
 1 Decision 15/CP.1, annex I, as amended by decision 17/CP.4, para. 16 . 
 2 FCCC/SBI/2021/4  and Add.1 –2. 
 3 See document FCCC/SBI/20 21/4, chap. III. C. FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
 41 13. Decides  to maintain the level of the working capital reserve at 8.3 per cent of the 
estimated expenditure;  
14. Urges  Parties that have not made contributions in full to the core budget for the current 
and/or previous bienniums to do so without further delay;  
15. Invites  all Parties to the Convention to note that each Party shall, prior to 1 January of 
each year, inform the secretariat of the contribution it intends to make that year and of the 
projected timing of that contribution in accordance with paragraph 8(a) of the financial 
procedures for the Conference of the Parties, its subsidiary bodies and the secretariat, and 
that contributions to  the core budget are due on 1 January of each year in accordance with 
paragraph 8(b) of the financial procedures, and to pay promptly and in full, for each of the 
years 2022 and 2023, the contributions required to finance the expenditures approved in 
parag raph 1 above and any contributions required to finance the expenditures arising from 
the decision referred to in paragraph 9 above on the contingency budget;  
16. Takes note  of the funding estimates of EUR 10.6 million for the Trust Fund for 
Participation in th e UNFCCC Process specified by the Executive Secretary for the biennium 
2022 –2023;4 
17. Invites  Parties to make contributions to the Trust Fund for Participation in the 
UNFCCC Process;  
18. Takes note  of the funding estimate of EUR 68.5 million for the Trust Fund for 
Supplementary Activities specified by the Executive Secretary for the biennium 2022 –2023 
(see table 4);  
19. Invites  Parties to make contributions to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities 
with a view to enabling the implementation of activities envisa ged under the Fund;  
20. Requests  the Executive Secretary to propose to the Conference of the Parties at its 
twenty -seventh session (November 2022) any adjustments that might be needed to the 
programme budget for the biennium 2022 –2023 and to support any such p roposal with a 
report on income and budget performance for the period 1 January to 30 June 2022;  
21. Also requests  the Executive Secretary to apply the budget methodology used by the 
secretariat to develop the programme budget for the biennium 2022 –2023 to future 
bienniums and to continue engaging Parties early in the budget process;  
22. Further requests  the Executive Sec retary to further enhance the transparency of future 
proposed budget documentation by including in the work programme a breakdown of staff 
per objective and output;  
23. Requests  the Executive Secretary to publish future proposals on the programme 
budget, inclu ding the work programme, at least 60 days before the start of the first session of 
the year of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation at which the budget is to be discussed;  
24. Also requests  the secretariat to enhance the provision of information in future b udget 
performance reports regarding:  
(a) Efficiency gains and any savings, including as a result of any impact on the 
implementation of the work programme due to the coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic;  
(b) Comparison of budgets and actuals;  
(c) Any action taken by the secretariat in response to evolving requirements;  
 
 4 As noted in the report of the Conference of the Parties on its nineteenth session  (FCCC/CP/2013/10 , 
para. 145 ): “At the resumed 10th meeting, the Executive Secretary requested that the following 
statement be reflected in the report of the session: ‘Since its inception, the secretariat has applied a 
consistent policy for the funding of representatives from developing country Parties acr oss all 
relevant trust funds. In light of decisions taken in Cancun and Doha, it has been decided to adjust the 
policy as follows: representatives from developing country Parties designated by their respective 
regional groups to participate in meetings of the constituted bodies established under the Convention, 
and elected by parent bodies, will be eligible for funding under the Trust Fund for the UNFCCC Core 
Budget and the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities’”.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
42  (d) Details and rationale on any budget reallocations in line with the Executive 
Secretary’s authorization.  
Table 1  
2022–2023 core budget by appropriation line  
(Euros)  
 2022  2023  2022–2023  
A. Appropriations     
Executive  1 916 780  1 916 780  3 833 560  
Programmes  15 118 618  14 776 284  29 894 902  
Programmes Coordination   256 940   256 940   513 880  
Adaptation  3 255 039  3 255 039  6 510 077  
Mitigation  1 870 091  1 870 091  3 740 182  
Means of Implementation  3 313 247  2 970 913  6 284 160  
Transparency  6 423 302  6 423 302  12 846 603  
Operations  6 412 137  6 412 137  12 824 274  
Operations Coordination   612 178   612 178  1 224 356  
Secretariat -wide costsa 1 435 293  1 435 293  2 870 586  
AS/HR/ICTb 1 877 106  1 877 106  3 754 211  
Conference Affairs  1 300 600  1 300 600  2 601 200  
Legal Affairs  1 186 960  1 186 960  2 373 920  
Cross -cutting  4 066 201  4 066 201  8 132 401  
Intergovernmental Support and Collective 
Progress  2 021 362  2 021 362  4 042 724  
Communication and Engagement  2 044 839  2 044 839  4 089 677  
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Changec  244 755   244 755   489 510  
Total appropriations  27 758 490  27 416 157  55 174 647  
B. Programme support costsd 3 608 604  3 564 100  7 172 704  
Total budget  31 367 094  30 980 257  62 347 351  
C. Adjustment to working capital reservee 103 470  – 103 470  
Required contributions (A+B+C)   31 470 564  30 980 257  62 450 821  
Income     
Contribution from the Host Government  766 938  766 938  1 533 876  
Contributions from all Parties  30 703 626  30 213 319  60 916 945  
Total income   31 470 564  30 980 257  62 450 821  
Abbreviations : AS = Administrative Services; HR = Human Resources; ICT = Information and Communication 
Technology. 
a  Secretariat -wide costs are pooled costs of staff and facilities managed by AS and HR on behalf of all divisions.  
b  AS and HR are funded from programme support costs (overhead), and ICT is funded from the core budget, the 
supplementary budget and cost recovery.  
c  Provision for an annual grant to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change . 
d  Standard 13 per cent ap plied for administrative support.  
e  In accordance with the financial procedures (decision 15/CP.1), the core budget is required to maintain a working 
capital reserve of 8.3 per cent (one month of operating requirements). The working capital reserve amount s to 
EUR  2,587,415 in 2022 and in 2023.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
 43 Table 2  
Secretariat -wide staffing funded from the core budget for 2022 –2023  
Grade of post  2021  2022  2023  
Professional category and above     
USG  1 1 1 
ASG  1 1 1 
D-2 2 2 2 
D-1 8 8 8 
P-5 18 18 18 
P-4 34 35 35 
P-3 44 44 44 
P-2 19 19 19 
Subtotal Professional category and above  127 128 128 
Subtotal General Service category  53.5 53 53 
Total  180.5  181 181 
Abbreviations : ASG = Assistant Secretary -General; D = Director; P = Professional; USG = 
Under -Secretary -General.  
Table 3  
Resource requirements for the conference services contingency for 2022 –2023  
(Euros)  
Object of expenditure  2022  2023  2022–2023  
Interpretation  1 149 094  1 183 567  2 332 661  
Documentation     
Translation  1 014 435  1 044 868  2 059 303  
Reproduction and distribution  779 935  803 333  1 583 268  
Meetings services support  234 878  241 925  476 803  
Subtotal  3 178 342  3 273 693  6 452 035  
Overhead charge  413 185  425 580  838 765  
Working capital reserve  298 097  8 943  307 040  
Total  3 889 624  3 708 216  7 597 840  
Table 4  
Overview of projects and funding requirements from the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities for the 
biennium 2022 –2023  
Project number  Project/subproject  Resource requirements for 2022 –2023  
EUR  P staff  GS staff 
SB101 -000 Intergovernmental engagement  4 922 000  6.1 4.6 
SB101 -002 Enhanced support for negotiations for SBSTA and CMA agenda items on 
cooperative approaches and the mechanisms under Article 6 of the Paris 
Agreement  552 000  1.6 0.3 
SB101 -003 Consultancies to support the periodic assessment of the Technology 
Mechanism  113 000  – – 
SB101 -005 Enhanced coordination and operational support for Presidency teams  908 000  2 2 
SB101 -006 Oversee and manage mandated activities relating to observer engagement, 
high-level engagement on climate action, Marrakech Partnership, gender, 
ACE and other stakeholder engagement activities  923 000  1 1 
SB101 -007 Enhanced legal support for presiding officers  500 000  1.5 0.3 
SB101 -009 Enhanced capacity for conferences and workshops  68 000  – – 
SB101 -012  Continued development and further enhancement of the Digital Platform for 
Climate Change Events  1 858 000  – 1 
SB102 -000 Intergovernmental processes  14 681 000  18.5 3.7 FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
44  Project number  Project/subproject  Resource requirements for 2022 –2023  
EUR  P staff  GS staff 
SB102 -001 Enhanced support for established work programmes, including the NWP, 
NAPs and adaptation -related work on transparency and the global stocktake  1 850 000  1.6 0.5 
SB102 -002 Enhanced support for activities relating to the impact of the implementation 
of response measures and workshops on LT -LEDS  1 017 000  2.6 0.1 
SB102 -003 Enhanced support, engagement and outreach in support of the development 
of the biennial assessment and overview of climate finance flows, including 
in relation to Article 2, paragraph 1(c), of the Paris Agreement, and 
determination of the needs of developing countries  1 390 000  1.6 1.2 
SB102 -004 Full support for the technical reviews of national reports (including REDD+) 
under the MRV/transparency processes, and training of review experts  8 396 000  10.8 1.9 
SB102 -005 Enhanced support for the second periodic review under the Convention, the 
global stocktake, and research and systematic observation  564 000  – – 
SB102 -006 Mandated climate action events at COP and annual updates and highlights of 
thematic and sectoral climate action through events, interviews and 
publications  1 128 000  2 – 
SB102 -012 Enhanced support for the intergovernmental process through the provision of 
authoritative, readily accessible and easily understandable audiovisual 
recordings  336 000  – – 
SB200 -000 Constituted bodies  15 503 000  19.7 5.3 
SB200 -001 Support for the full extent of activities envisaged in the workplans of the AC, 
the FWG  of the LCIPP , the LEG and the WIM Executive Committee  4 717 000  3.4 1.8 
SB200 -002 Support for the full extent of activities envisaged in the workplan s of the 
KCI and contingency for any institutional arrangements related to Article 6 
of the Paris Agreement  3 172 000  8.7 1.5 
SB200 -003 Support for the full extent of activities envisaged in the workplans of the 
SCF, the TEC and the Paris Committee on Capa city-building  1 105 000  2 0.5 
SB200 -004 Support for developing countries to implement MRV and the ETF, including 
through the work of the CGE  5 919 000  4.7 1.5 
SB200 -007 Support for the full extent of activities of the compliance committees under 
the Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement  590 000  1 – 
SB300 -000 Data and information management  10 286 000  12.4 2.5 
SB300 -001  Development and enhancement of adaptation -related data portals  875 000  1.7 0.7 
SB300 -002 Development and enhancement of mitigation -related data portals and data 
management systems, including an information portal on LT -LEDS and a 
contingency system for a corresponding adjustment under Article 6, 
paragraph 2, of the Paris Agreement  92 000  0.3 – 
SB300 -003 Development and enh ancement of support for means of implementation data 
portals, in particular the finance, TT:CLEAR and capacity -building portals  553 000  0.8 0.9 
SB300 -004 Development of the information hub and related reporting and review 
systems and tools used under the ETF and streamlining of the existing data 
management systems and tools used under the current transparency 
arrangements  2 171 000  1.1 0.1 
SB300 -006-1 Enhancement of digital communication capabilities for effective engagement 
with Parties, non-Party stakeholders and the public  2 380 000  6 0.5 
SB300 -006-2 Participation in climate action globally is enabled, enhanced and recognized 
through the GCA portal  1 152 000  2 – 
SB300 -007 Enhancement of the elections portal and database  342 000  0.5 0.3 
SB300 -009 Enhancement and modernization of platforms and strengthening security of 
infrastructure and platforms  2 373 000    
SB300 -012 Enhancement of the management of official business records, information 
and archives of the secretariat and the intergovernmental process  348 000  – – 
SB400 -000 Enhanced engagement  19 502 000  24.4 5.5 
SB400 -001 Enhanced engagement with respect to climate change impacts, vulnerability 
and adaptation  221 000  0.4 – 
SB400 -002 Enhanced engagement of stakeholders through capacity -building to enhance 
regional action towards implementation of the Paris Agreement  7 932 000  8.9 1.1 FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
 45 Project number  Project/subproject  Resource requirements for 2022 –2023  
EUR  P staff  GS staff 
SB400 -003 Enhanced engagement with Parties and other stakeholders to strengthen the 
capacities of developing countries with respect to the implementation of 
NDCs and NAPs  2 060 000  0.6 1.4 
SB400 -004 Additional support and enhanced engagement for the development and 
implementation of the ETF  3 612 000  2.5 0.5 
SB400 -006-1 Digital communication campaigns for promoting achievements in the 
UNFCCC process; and multilingual content for the UNFCCC website, 
mobile app and social media  2 173 000  6 – 
SB400 -006-2 Catalysing and supporting climate action among Parties and non -Party 
stakeholders through sectoral partnerships, facilitation of climate action 
initiatives and support for new tools and standards to ensure alignment with 
UNFCCC process requirements  1 635 000  2 1.5 
SB400 -006-3 Facilitating observer engagement through planning and organizing side 
events, exhibits and Climate Action Studio interviews by Parties and 
observer organizations, including their live broadcasting and web posting  652 000  2 – 
SB400 -007 Enhanced engagement with and support of legislators and policymakers 
through information exchange and knowledge management with respect to 
climate change legislation  587 000  1 1 
SB400 -010 Enhanced engagement by the Executive Secretary and Deputy Executive 
Secretary in United Nations wide management and coordination activities  630 000  1 – 
SB500 -000 Oversight and management  1 811 000  1 1.4 
SB500 -007 Provision of institutional legal review and advice with respect to all activities 
and operations of the secretariat  434 000  1 0.4 
SB500 -009 Enhancement and modernization of infrastructure, networks and end -user 
equipment and productivity tools  791 000  – – 
SB500 -012 Coordination of innovation activities and operational efficiency 
improvements  586 000  – 1 
SB600 -000 Cross -cutting (projects supporting multiple objectives)  1 815 000  4 1 
SB600 -006-1 Facilitating and supporting implementation of established processes and 
work related to ACE, including enhancing inclusive stakeholder engagement  772 000  2 – 
SB600 -006-2 Facilitating and supporting implementation of established processes and 
work related to gender, including enhancing inclusive stakeholder 
engagement  1 043 000  2 1 
Total (including programme support costs)  68 520 000  86 24 
Abbreviations : AC = Adaptation Committee ; ACE = Action for Climate Empowerment ; CGE = Consultative Group of Experts ; 
CMA = Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement; COP = Conference of the Parties ; 
ETF = enhanced transparency framework to the Paris Agreement; FWG = Facilitative Working Group ; GCA = global climate action; 
GS =  General Service  level staff ; KCI = Katowice Committee of Experts on the Impacts of the Implementation of Response 
Measures ; LCIPP  = Local Communities and Indigenous Peoples Platform ; LEG = Least Developed Countries Expert Group ; 
LT-LEDS = long-term low-emission  development strategy ; MRV = measur ement , reporting and verification; NAP = national 
adaptation plan ; NDC = nationally determined contribution ; NWP = Nairobi work programme on i mpacts, vulnerability and 
adaptation to climate change ; P = Professional  level staff ; PCCB = Paris Committee on Capacity -building ; REDD+ = reducing 
emissions from deforestation; reducing emissions from forest degradation; conservation of forest carbon stoc ks; sustainable 
management of forests; and enhancement of forest carbon stocks (decision 1/CP.16, para. 70) ; SBSTA = Subsidiary Body for 
Scientific and Technological Advice; SCF = Standing Committee on Finance ; TEC = Technology Executive Committee ; 
TT:CLEA R = technology information clearing house ; WIM = Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage associated 
with Climate Change Impacts.  
  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
46  Annex  
  Indicative scale of contributions from Parties to the 
Convention for 2022 –2023  
Party  United  Nations  scale 
of assessments for 
2019–2021  Convention and 
Paris Agreement 
adjusted  scale for 
2022–2023  
Afghanistan  0.007  0.007  
Albania  0.008  0.008  
Algeria  0.138  0.135  
Andorra  0.005  0.005  
Angola  0.010  0.010  
Antigua and Barbuda  0.002  0.002  
Argentina  0.915  0.892  
Armenia  0.007  0.007  
Australia  2.210  2.155  
Austria  0.677  0.660  
Azerbaijan  0.049  0.048  
Bahamas  0.018  0.018  
Bahrain  0.050  0.049  
Bangladesh  0.010  0.010  
Barbados  0.007  0.007  
Belarus  0.049  0.048  
Belgium  0.821  0.800  
Belize  0.001  0.001  
Benin  0.003  0.003  
Bhutan  0.001  0.001  
Bolivia (Plurinational State of)  0.016  0.016  
Bosnia and Herzegovina  0.012  0.012  
Botswana  0.014  0.014  
Brazil  2.948  2.874  
Brunei Darussalam  0.025  0.024  
Bulgaria  0.046  0.045  
Burkina Faso  0.003  0.003  
Burundi  0.001  0.001  
Cabo Verde  0.001  0.001  
Cambodia  0.006  0.006  
Cameroon  0.013  0.013  
Canada  2.734  2.665  
Central African Republic  0.001  0.001  
Chad  0.004  0.004  
Chile  0.407  0.397  
China  12.005  11.704  
Colombia  0.288  0.281  
Comoros  0.001  0.001  
Congo  0.006  0.006  
Cook Islands  0.000  0.001  
Costa Rica  0.062  0.060  
Côte d’Ivoire  0.013  0.013  
Croatia  0.077  0.075  
Cuba  0.080  0.078  
Cyprus  0.036  0.035  
Czechia  0.311  0.303  
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea  0.006  0.006  
Democratic Republic of the Congo  0.010  0.010  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
 47 Party  United  Nations  scale 
of assessments for 
2019–2021  Convention and 
Paris Agreement 
adjusted  scale for 
2022–2023  
Denmark  0.554  0.540  
Djibouti  0.001  0.001  
Dominica  0.001  0.001  
Dominican Republic  0.053  0.052  
Ecuador  0.080  0.078  
Egypt  0.186  0.181  
El Salvador  0.012  0.012  
Equatorial Guinea  0.016  0.016  
Eritrea  0.001  0.001  
Estonia  0.039  0.038  
Eswatini  0.002  0.002  
Ethiopia  0.010  0.010  
European Union  0.000  2.500  
Fiji 0.003  0.003  
Finland  0.421  0.410  
France  4.427  4.316  
Gabon  0.015  0.015  
Gambia  0.001  0.001  
Georgia  0.008  0.008  
Germany  6.090  5.937  
Ghana  0.015  0.015  
Greece  0.366  0.357  
Grenada  0.001  0.001  
Guatemala  0.036  0.035  
Guinea  0.003  0.003  
Guinea -Bissau  0.001  0.001  
Guyana  0.002  0.002  
Haiti  0.003  0.003  
Honduras  0.009  0.009  
Hungary  0.206  0.201  
Iceland  0.028  0.027  
India  0.834  0.813  
Indonesia  0.543  0.529  
Iran (Islamic Republic of)  0.398  0.388  
Iraq 0.129  0.126  
Ireland  0.371  0.362  
Israel  0.490  0.478  
Italy 3.307  3.224  
Jamaica  0.008  0.008  
Japan  8.564  8.349  
Jordan  0.021  0.020  
Kazakhstan  0.178  0.174  
Kenya  0.024  0.023  
Kiribati  0.001  0.001  
Kuwait  0.252  0.246  
Kyrgyzstan  0.002  0.002  
Lao People’s Democratic Republic  0.005  0.005  
Latvia  0.047  0.046  
Lebanon  0.047  0.046  
Lesotho  0.001  0.001  
Liberia  0.001  0.001  
Libya  0.030  0.029  
Liechtenstein  0.009  0.009  
Lithuania  0.071  0.069  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
48  Party  United  Nations  scale 
of assessments for 
2019–2021  Convention and 
Paris Agreement 
adjusted  scale for 
2022–2023  
Luxembourg  0.067  0.065  
Madagascar  0.004  0.004  
Malawi  0.002  0.002  
Malaysia  0.341  0.332  
Maldives  0.004  0.004  
Mali  0.004  0.004  
Malta  0.017  0.017  
Marshall Islands  0.001  0.001  
Mauritania  0.002  0.002  
Mauritius  0.011  0.011  
Mexico  1.292  1.260  
Micronesia (Federated States of) 0.001  0.001  
Monaco  0.011  0.011  
Mongolia  0.005  0.005  
Montenegro  0.004  0.004  
Morocco  0.055  0.054  
Mozambique  0.004  0.004  
Myanmar  0.010  0.010  
Namibia  0.009  0.009  
Nauru  0.001  0.001  
Nepal  0.007  0.007  
Netherlands  1.356  1.322  
New Zealand  0.291  0.284  
Nicaragua  0.005  0.005  
Niger  0.002  0.002  
Nigeria  0.250  0.244  
Niue  0.000  0.001  
North Macedonia  0.007  0.007  
Norway  0.754  0.735  
Oman  0.115  0.112  
Pakistan  0.115  0.112  
Palau  0.001  0.001  
Panama  0.045  0.044  
Papua New Guinea  0.010  0.010  
Paraguay  0.016  0.016  
Peru 0.152  0.148  
Philippines  0.205  0.200  
Poland  0.802  0.782  
Portugal  0.350  0.341  
Qatar  0.282  0.275  
Republic of Korea  2.267  2.210  
Republic of Moldova  0.003  0.003  
Romania  0.198  0.193  
Russian Federation  2.405  2.345  
Rwanda  0.003  0.003  
Saint Kitts and Nevis  0.001  0.001  
Saint Lucia  0.001  0.001  
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines  0.001  0.001  
Samoa  0.001  0.001  
San Marino  0.002  0.002  
Sao Tome and Principe  0.001  0.001  
Saudi Arabia  1.172  1.143  
Senegal  0.007  0.007  
Serbia  0.028  0.027  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
 49 Party  United  Nations  scale 
of assessments for 
2019–2021  Convention and 
Paris Agreement 
adjusted  scale for 
2022–2023  
Seychelles  0.002  0.002  
Sierra Leone  0.001  0.001  
Singapore  0.485  0.473  
Slovakia  0.153  0.149  
Slovenia  0.076  0.074  
Solomon Islands  0.001  0.001  
Somalia  0.001  0.001  
South Africa  0.272  0.265  
South Sudan  0.006  0.006  
Spain  2.146  2.092  
Sri Lanka  0.044  0.043  
State of Palestine  0.000  0.008  
Sudan  0.010  0.010  
Suriname  0.005  0.005  
Sweden  0.906  0.883  
Switzerland  1.151  1.122  
Syrian Arab Republic  0.011  0.011  
Tajikistan  0.004  0.004  
Thailand  0.307  0.299  
Timor -Leste  0.002  0.002  
Togo  0.002  0.002  
Tonga  0.001  0.001  
Trinidad and Tobago  0.040  0.039  
Tunisia  0.025  0.024  
Turkey  1.371  1.337  
Turkmenistan  0.033  0.032  
Tuvalu  0.001  0.001  
Uganda  0.008  0.008  
Ukraine  0.057  0.056  
United Arab Emirates  0.616  0.601  
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland  4.567  4.452  
United Republic of Tanzania  0.010  0.010  
United States of America  22.000  21.448  
Uruguay  0.087  0.085  
Uzbekistan  0.032  0.031  
Vanuatu  0.001  0.001  
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)  0.728  0.710  
Viet Nam  0.077  0.075  
Yemen  0.010  0.010  
Zambia  0.009  0.009  
Zimbabwe  0.005  0.005  
Total  100.000  100.000  
10th plenary meeting  
11 Novemb er 2021FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
50  Decision 23/CP.26  
Administrative, financial and institutional matters  
The Conference of the Parties , 
Recalling the financial procedures for the Conference of the Parties,1 
Having  considered  the information contained in the documents prepared by the 
secretariat on administrative, financial and institutional matters,2 
I. Budget performance for the bienni ums 2018–2019 and 2020 –
2021  
1. Takes note  of the information contained in the reports on budget performance for the 
bienniums 2018 –2019 (as at 31 December 2019) and 2020 –2021 (as at 31 December 2020)3 
and the note on the status of contributions to the trust funds administered by the secretariat 
as at 22 October 2021;4 
2. Expresses its appreciation  to Parties that made contributions to the core budget in a 
timely manner;  
3. Expresses concern  regarding the high level of outstanding contributions to the core 
budget for the current and previous bienniums, which has resulted in difficulties with cash 
flow and the effective implementation of activities;  
4. Strongly urges  Parties that have not made contributions in full to the core budget for 
the current and/or previous bienniums to do so without further delay;  
5. Calls upon  Parties to make their contributions to the core budget for 2022 in a timely 
manner, bearing in mind that contributions are due on 1 January of each year in accordance 
with the financial procedures for the Conference of the Parties;  
6. Expresses its appreciat ion for the contributions to the Trust Fund for Participation in 
the UNFCCC Process and to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities received from 
Parties, including those contributions that allow for greater flexibility in allocation;  
7. Urges  Parties to f urther contribute to the Trust Fund for Participation in the UNFCCC 
Process in order to ensure the widest possible participation in the process  in 2022 –2023, and 
to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities to ensure a high level of implementation of 
the UNFCCC work programme;  
8. Reiterates its appreciation  to the Government of Germany for its annual voluntary 
contribution to the core budget of EUR 766,938 and its special contribution  of 
EUR  1,789,522 as Host Government of the secretariat;  
9. Requests  the Exec utive Secretary to take further measures to reduce  Parties’  
outstanding contributions ; 
10. Also r equests  the Executive Secretary  to prepare  annual budget performance reports 
covering 12 and 24 months of the biennium , respectively;  
 
 1 Decision 15/CP.1, annex I . 
 2 FCCC/SBI /2020/3 and Add.1 –2, FCCC/SBI/2021/5 and Add.1 , FCCC/SBI/2021/INF.8 , 
FCCC/SBI/2020/INF.9 and Add.1 , FCCC/SBI/2021/INF.4 and Add.1 , FCCC/SBI/2020/INF.2  and 
FCCC/SBI/2020/INF.3 . 
 3 FCCC/SBI/2020/3 and Add.1 –2 and FCCC/SBI/2021/5 and Add.1 . 
 4 FCCC/SBI/2021/INF.8 . FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
 51 II. Audit reports and financial statements for 2019 and 
2020  
11. Takes note  of the audit reports of the United Nations Board of Auditors5 and the 
financial statements for 2019 and 2020, which include recommendations, and the comments 
of the secretariat thereon;  
12. Expresses its appre ciation  to the United Nations for arranging the audit of the 
accounts of the Convention;  
13. Also expresses its appreciation  to the auditors for the ir valuable observations and 
recommendations and the written statement  thereon shared with Parties  at the fifty -second to 
fifty-fifth session of the Subsidiary Body for Implementation ; 
14. Expresses  concern  about the high number of recommendations from  the U nited 
Nations  Board of Auditors  not yet implemented by the secretariat;  
15. Urges  the Executive Secretary to implement the recommendations of the auditors , as 
appropriate, and to update Parties on progress ;  
III. Other financial and budgetary matters  
16. Takes note of the information contained in the documents prepared by the secretariat 
on oth er financial and budgetary matters, including on efforts to further improve the 
efficiency and transparency of the UNFCCC budget process6 and on standard costs ;7 
17. Reiterates  the request to the Executive Secretary to prepare, regularly update and 
publish b efore each session of the subsidiary bodies brief reports on standard costs and, if 
available, options for reducing the cost of activities where practicable;  
18. Welcomes  the information on standard travel costs provided by the secretariat;8 
19. Recommends  that t he secretariat publish and regularly update information on standard 
costs on the UNFCCC website (instead  of the brief update reports) and inform Parties in a 
timely and clear manner when new information is available (at least before each session of 
the sub sidiary bodies);  
20. States  that the purpose of reporting on standard costs is to provide Parties with insight 
into the budgetary impact of any planned decisions  of the governing bodies;  
21. Welcome s the proposed measures for improving the efficiency and transparency of 
the UNFCCC budget process;9 
22. Request s the secretariat to report on the implementation of those measures in the 
report on efforts to improve the efficiency and transparency of the UNFCCC budget process;  
23. Acknowledge s the increase in unearmarked contributions in relation to earmarked 
contributio ns to the Trust Fund for Supplementary Activities;  
24. Also a cknowledge s that reducing earmarking and establishing longer and more 
flexible utilization periods would increase flexibility in using contributions to the Trust Fund 
for Supplementary Activities, wh ich would enable the secretariat to allocate funding to the 
activities most in need of resources;  
25. Appreciate s the approach taken by the Executive Secretary to presenting 
supplementary resource requirements by overall objective and thematic area while also 
enclosing a list of supplementary projects;  
 
 5 FCCC /SBI/2020/INF.9 and  Add.1 and FCCC/SBI/2021/INF.4 and Add.1 . 
 6 FCCC/SBI/2020/INF.2 .  
 7 FCCC/SBI/2020/INF. 3.  
 8 FCCC/SBI/2020/INF. 3. 
 9 FCCC/SBI/2020/INF.2, paras. 30, 31 and 33.  FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
52  26. Request s the secretariat to enhance follow -up on Parties’ outstanding core 
contributions, including through payment plans;  
27. Decides to keep  the level of the working capital reserve at 8.3 per cent of annual total 
expenditure (in line with the UNFCCC financial procedures);  
28. Request s the secretariat to inform Parties of the review and prioritization criteria for 
unearmarked contributions to ensure that they are allocated to activities in line with the 
secretariat’s wo rk programme and the priorities set by Parties.  
10th plenary meeting  
11 Novemb er 2021FCCC/CP/2021/12/Add.2  
 53 Resolution 1/CP.26  
   Expression of gratitude to the Government of the United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland  and the 
people of the city of Glasgow  
 Resolution submitted by the Arab Republic of Egypt  
The Conference of the Parties, the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting 
of the Parties to the Paris Agreement , 
Having met in Glasgow  from 31 October  to 13 November 2021 , 
1. Express their profound gratitude  to the Government of the United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland for having made it possible for the twenty -sixth session of the 
Conference of the Parties, the sixteenth session of the Conference of the Parties serving as 
the meeting of the P arties to the Kyoto Protocol and the third session of the Conference of 
the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement to be held in Glasgow;  
2. Request the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland 
to convey to the city and people of Glasgow  the gratitude of the Conference of the Parties, 
the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol and 
the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to  the Paris Agreement for 
the hospitality and warmth extended to the participants.  
12th plenary meeting  
13 Novemb er 2021  
    